Impact of Clean Drinking Water and Sanitation 
on Water Borne Diseases in Pakistan 
Abstract 
Water is an essential need of human being. Every person on this planet requires at least 20 to 
50 liters of safe water in a day for drinking, cooking and other purposes. According to United 
Nations (UN) the basic human right is to universal access to Safe water, and an essential step 
towards better living standards all over the world. According to government of Pakistan 
Economic survey (2008) In Pakistan, it revealed that nearly 50 million people are deprived of 
Safe drinking water.  In this research it is intended to produce trends of Sanitation and safe 
drinking water situation in Pakistan. This study also looks deep into the relationship of water 
borne diseases with the background information of the respondents. Which is itself is a 
contribution of my work on water borne diseases. Secondary Data from Pakistan 
Demographic Health Survey (PDHS) and Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) has been 
used. To see the individual impact of environmental, social and demographic characteristics 
to influence diarrhoea separate equations were executed. Presenting the pathways of 
communicable diseases, has developed from two model i.e. model of Exposures and health 
outcomes are difficult by unified factors studied by Montgomery et al., (2007) and model of 
transmission pathways of fecal-oral diseases studied by Prüss et al., (2002). Results of the 
study conclude that Post-neonatal i.e. greater than 28 days from birth deaths have a 
significant proportion caused due to diarrheal morbidity. There are almost 7 postnatal deaths 
(per thousand) that happen due to childhood morbidity of diarrhea and almost same is for the 
children who are under five years old. Urban zones showed high prevalence of diarrhea 
among children and rural areas brought high rates of childhood diarrhea. Incidences of 
diarrhea are more for households with not-improved toilet facility as compared to those with 
improved toilet facility. Incidence of childhood diarrhea emerge more for children belonging 
to households with pit latrine with slab. Educated mothers are hypothesized to be beneficial 
for less prevalence of diarrhea. In this regard, our investigation shows that, educated mothers 
are highly influential. In the end Policy Recommendations has been given which are rational 
to be incorporated in polices for Policy Makers.  
 
Key Words: Water, Sanitation, Diarrhoea, Communicable disease and Childhood. 
 
Introduction 
Lack of Proper sanitation & Safe drinking water has been and endures to be a source of most 
important issue around the globe due to high rates of mortality and morbidity associated with 
them. Children are most vulnerable, especially children those under the five years of age. 
Majority of cases of mortality and morbidity are in children. 
According to UNICEF report (2008) approximately 1.8 million people die annually and 4 
billion cases are associated from water-related diseases which are becoming a major root of 
mortality and morbidity across the globe. In developing countries, 99.8% of such deaths 
occur out of which 90% are children under the age of five. Moreover, 88% of this 99.8% are 
illnesses are directly linked with insufficient supply of water, poor water sanitation and hygiene. 
Due to immense uses of water for many purposes, such as agricultural and industrial 
activities, have hugely impacted the quality and quantity of water resources, leads to increase 
water related diseases and its hazardous effects.  
This Scenario stands worst in third world countries. The mortality and morbidity due to poor 
quality drinking water and sanitation are higher among these underdeveloped and developing 
countries. It causes both human and economic loss for these third world countries. 
The water resource issues and poor quality of drinking water are the main concerns in 
developing countries. Montgomery and Elimelech (2007) indicated that poor sanitation and 
quality of drinking water has become major cause of spreading water borne diseases 
including dysentery, cholera, giardiasis, and hepatitis A and E etc.  
As a developing country, Pakistan also deprived of improved sanitation and Safe drinking 
water. In Pakistan, poor hygienic habits, improved sanitation, and Safe drinking water are 
associated with a number of water borne diseases among the people. Like other countries, in 
Pakistan children are the most affected ones from such diseases and mortality resulting from 
them. 
As according to government of Pakistan Economic survey (2008) in Pakistan nearly 50 
million individuals lack availability of Safe drinking water. Only 42% people have access to 
sanitation services out of which 65% are in urban areas and 30% are in rural areas. In urban 
areas, about 30% people live in slums. In urban areas, about 30% people live in slums, with 
entirely insufficient sanitation and sewage dumping facilities. Majority of the people who are 
living near open drains or sewers particularly affected by sever health issues. Moreover, 
diarrheal diseases were accounted for 14% of all expiries in children under five. In Pakistan, 
everyday 670,000 children missed school due to diseases and lack of proper water sanitation 
system. Pakistan is being hit by PKR 112 billion per annum due to hygiene related illness; it 
includes disease caused by unsafe water and poor sanitation.  
In Pakistan, lack of water and sanitation is one of the most recurrent glitches and nearly 16 
million individuals do not have access to safe water. In 2016 Dawn published that about 84% 
to 89% water sources do not fulfill the water quality standards for human consumption. 
In rural areas, accessibility of tap water is very low, for example in Punjab it is approximately 
13% as compared to 43% in urban areas. 88% of water of rural areas from the samples of 21 
districts in Punjab was unsafe and similarly 79% of water of rural areas from the samples of 
12 districts in Punjab was also hazardous (Daily Times, 2016). It is obvious that rate of 
mortality is very high due to water borne disease. Correspondingly, in 2017 Daily Times 
published those nearly 39,000 expiries due to Diarrheal ailments among children under five 
in 2015 in Pakistan, out of which 22,900 expiries were caused by poor washing habits. 
Now it is a major concern for policymakers in Pakistan and international organizations 
working on health in Pakistan. The need for effective policy making to overcome the issue 
has been recognized. However, before any attempts we made, there is a need to understand 
the major concern and therefore studies are obligatory in this area. This study is an attempt to 
improve our understanding of the issue and come up with solid Policy recommendations to 
tackle this problem of impure sanitation system and poor drinking water in the country. 
Objective 
“The study will address the water quality issues with respect to water borne disease (diarrhea) 
and the factors associated with it, at national sub nation level. Furthermore, policy 
intervention required to improve water quality situation in the country” 
Based on above objectives of study, the main hypotheses of the study are: 
1. 
Variation in water and sanitation systems could affect the water borne disease among 
children under five. 
Prevalence of childhood morbidity due to waterborne disease is a function of some 
background characteristics including demographic, socioeconomic and environmental 
factors. 
Literature Review 
Preclusion of waterborne disease is a big worry in the world. Waterborne illness signify 
burden of diseases around the globe. About 4% of illnesses are associated with sanitation, 
water and hygiene; similarly approximately 2.2 million persons die every single year because 
of diarrheal illness in the world. Drinking water is a big reason of communicable and non-
communicable agents in developing countries. Waterborne medical situations represent 
substantial burden of illnesses worldwide. According to Rana (2009) the children who are 
under the age of five years are more susceptible to get infected from waterborne pathogens as 
compared to adults.  
In 2012 Imran et al. said diarrheal disease poses morbidity and mortality hazards to children. 
Another perspective is the economic perspective which emphasizes on consideration and 
clarification of relationship and household behavior among the suitable involvements and the 
resources. The methodological outlook highlights the requirement to deliver households with 
an abundant and satisfactory safe water supply and sanitation facilities. Diarrhoea occurrence 
low with safe water and households are alert in their individual hygiene, and boil water. In 
such case, interference like water quality improvement possibly will show unsuccessful in 
dropping diarrhoea rates because of the behavioral issues.  
Pakistan‟s water and sanitation challenges are increasing which illustrate the problems of 
rapid urbanization. Mainly in rural areas, availability of safe drinking water is also of main 
concern for women and children as they are also have the responsibility for fetching water 
from distances. 
In 2005, Roseman estimated death of about 0.25 million children per annum because of 
diarrhea & related diseases in Pakistan. Each year about ten thousand people die in just 
Karachi due to renal infection caused by unsafe water.  
In 20005, Aziz JA discussed that because of unsafe drinking-water, people continuously 
suffer from waterborne diseases. Contaminated drinking water diseases caused about 40% of 
all deaths and about 30% of all diseases in Pakistan. Diseases like cholera, typhoid, hepatitis 
and dysentery are repeatedly reported throughout Pakistan. Diarrhoea is second highest in 
numbers amongst 15 top infectious diseases in less than 5 years of age children. This clearly 
indicates the faecal contamination of drinking-water in Punjab, Pakistan.  
As described by Haydar et al. (2009) in Pakistan nearly 40% expiries and 30% ailments are 
allied to hazardous water. Due to contaminated drinking water, every fifth individual suffers 
from disease. It is projected that more than three million Pakistanis suffer from waterborne 
illnesses and annually 0.1 million individuals don‟t survive. In Pakistan, an estimated 44% 
population doesn‟t have access to safe drinking water whereas facts increase to 80% in rural 
areas. Nearly 1.1 billion populations are deficient to access basic drinking water and 
sanitation. On the other side, it is indicated that there is still 2.4 billion people who are lack of 
safe drinking water and improved sanitation system across the globe. 
As viewed by Muhammad et al. (2012), diseases particularly diarrhoea is one of the leading 
cause of disease associated with drinking contaminated water is responsible for 2.5 million 
childhood deaths every year.  
According to Khalil et al (2016) Pakistan is blessed with surface and ground resources, but 
with the passage of time water remains an acute resource for sustained safety of the people. 
Diarrhea is well-recognized water born disease caused by rotavirus among children. Water 
borne diseases can have a significant impact on the economy which results in increased 
number of deaths. Moreover, 60% of the deaths are due to diarrhoea caused by pathogens, 
impure drinking water or food.    
In 2007 Fahim Jahangir Khan and Yaser Javed wrote about the Provision of safe drinking 
water & adequate sanitation in the Pakistan. The Provision of safe drinking water, adequate 
sanitation and personal hygiene are important to control trachoma, malaria, diarrhoea, 
hepatitis A & hepatitis B, morbidity, morbidity levels and the sustainable environmental 
condition. As reported by MICS Balochistan in 2004, about 38.5 million people of Pakistan 
don‟t have safe drinking water and 50.7 million are lacking with proper sanitation in the 
country. The finding of the research indicates that in Pakistan the regional and/or national 
targets, there are direct relationship exists between the health, nutrition, water sanitation, 
human well-being and natural environment. Worldwide due to water related illness every day 
about 14000 to 30000 individual frequently children die (IHRO, 2007) it is reported that 
approximately there is more than 5 million Water borne disease related mortalities per year. 
About 3.7% of the health problems and 3.1% of the deaths annually across the globe which is 
associated with unsafe drinking water, sanitation and hygiene related concerns. 
As viewed by Kemp et al. (2010) different progressive actions including mining, pose 
numerous risks to human rights for the availability of safe drinking water. Majority of 
universal frameworks, availability of safe drinking water is the basic human right. On the 
other hand, safe water requirements can be assured through international and anti-
privatization movements for access to safe drinking water.  
 
Methodology 
This study revolves around the impacts of environmental, demographic, social and economic 
factors on human health outcomes. Following figure, presenting the pathways of 
communicable diseases, has developed from two model i.e. model of Exposures and health 
outcomes are complicated by interrelated factors called MEME studied by Montgomery et 
al., (2007) and model of transmission pathways of fecal-oral diseases studied by Prüss et al., 
(2002) as discussed in literature above 
Figure: 1. Model of Pathways of communicable diseases stimulated by background 
population characteristics and household environmental factors 
 
Population characteristics motivate the conditions that cause diarrhoea which is considered as 
an outcome from poor water and sanitation conditions. Water borne sewerage and non-
improves latrines (non-recycling or unpaved lines etc.) caused by human disposal of wastes 
majorly excreta put their impression directly to the sources of surface and ground water. 
However, sources of surface and ground water impress each other with their direct effects on 
sources of drinking water, respectively. Surface water on contamination cause communicable 
diseases directly or indirectly but ground water which is interlinked with surface water 
indirectly brings communicable diseases by contaminating the drinking water.  
Research Type & Approach 
The entire research work is exploratory and is defined as the initial research into a 
hypothetical or theoretical idea. In exploratory research, researcher has an idea or has 
observed something to understand more about it. The nature of this exploratory research is to 
determine futuristic approach about feasibility of initial ground work. The inductive approach 
which is often called bottom up approach is used to precede this study.  
This study makes use of quantitative statistical tools to evaluate objectives and test the 
potential hypothesis of the study. It makes use of micro data of nationally representative 
household surveys. To bring out the micro level evidence for mainstreaming the sub 
national level health policies, this study make use of national, provincial and sub 
provincial level data.  
According to Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (2012-13) piloted by National 
Institute of Population Studies (NIPS) provide comprehensive details on child health. This 
survey is based on two stage provincial sample design covering country districts including 
Islamabad, Punjab, Sindh, Balochistan, Gilgit-Baltistan and KPK. Micro Data of PDHS have 
selected to evaluate to impact of environmental, socioeconomic, demographic and 
background factors on incidence of diarrhea.  
Multiple indicators Cluster Survey (MICS 2014) is well recognized micro data for analyzing 
the child health outcomes. It is a tool to provide the district level development indicators 
instrumented by UNICEF globally over last few decades. District Level Multiple Indicators 
Cluster Survey (MICS), published in 2014 from Punjab and Sindh Bureau of Statistics, will 
provide information of diarrhea prevalence in two weeks earlier the study. Both if MICS 
surveys provide the district level provincial estimates from Punjab and Sindh regions. 
Following is the samples size for MICS (2014). 
Table 1. Sample Size of Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey 
 
Region 
Sample Households 
Children (0-59 months) 
Punjab 
41413 (97.6% response) 
47841 
Sindh 
19360 (94.4% response) 
47202 
                                                          
1 MICS (2014) Punjab Report, Page 58, Table CH.5: Care-seeking during diarrhea 
2 MICS (2014) Sindh Report, Page 51, Table CH.5: Care-seeking during diarrhea 
 
Limitations of Data 
PDHS is based on provincial sample design. Hence it provides National and Province level 
estimates. MICS are limited to District level estimates for only Punjab and Sindh Districts. 
Last PDHS round (3) was undertaken during 2012-13 and MICS were conducted in 2014. For 
district level rates of diarrhea, PDHS could not comply hence MICS was selected on the 
bases of similarity of definition of our dependent variable and closeness of years of surveys. 
Schedule of data collection is totally different for both MICS and PDHS. Definitions and data 
dictionaries used in PDHS and MICS are similar for selected variables. 
Respondents 
All children ages 0-59 months are our target population. Information of diarrhea prevalence is 
collected from “Child Health” section of “Individual Ever Married Questionnaire”. This 
section provides comprehensive information of incidences diarrhea and its treatment. 
Variables of Study 
Childhood diarrhoea has taken as output indicators of household poor environmental 
conditions. Environmental conditions i.e., source of washing facility and safe drinking water 
affects the children health (under five years). Common viral disease spread rapidly if these 
conditions are not satisfactory hence hygienic. Socioeconomic status gives population 
subgroups that are vulnerable. Demographic characteristics gives insight into influence of 
population based characteristics that influence the diarrhea and household level background 
characteristics provide a snap shot of inherited factors that do not affect diarrhoea directly but 
are influencing it.  
Dependent Variable 
It takes the value „1‟ if events of morbidity (diarrhea in last 14 days), due to water borne 
disease, are observed and „0‟ if no such evidence is found among children under the age of 
five years old.  
Independent Variables 
There are four major groups of independent variables i.e. (toilet and drinking water facility), 
socioeconomic (education and working status), demographic (age of child and mother, 
gender of child and size of child at birth) and background characteristics (ethnicity, 
household wealth status and region of residence of children).  
Table 2. Domains and Variables 
Domains 
Variables 
Reference 
Demographic 
Age of Child; Age of Mother; 
Gender of Child 
Anteneh et al 2017; Murtaza et al 
2015; Imran et al (--); Arif and 
Naheed 2012; Mengistie et al 2013 
Socio 
Economic 
Education of Parents; Economic 
Working status of mother; Wealth 
of Mother 
Ibid 
Background 
Area of Residence; Region of 
Residence; Ethnicity 
Ibid 
Environmental 
Water Supply; Sanitation Facility 
Ibid; Fayehun, 2010; MICS 2014 
Main Report 
 
Each component of these groups of indicators is explained below:- 
Toilet Facility: It depicts the condition of sanitation at household. 
Source of Drinking Water: It shows the different ways from which households are using 
water for drinking purpose. 
Current age of child (months): Immunity of child improves as age increases.  
Gender of Child: This variable is considered to show whether there is any difference in rates 
of diarrhea among male and female children. 
Size of Child at Birth and Birth Weight: Children who are naturally healthy are least likely 
to get diarrhea. 
Mother’s Age: As soon as age of mother increases the diarrhea decreases due to increasing 
experience of motherhood. 
Age difference B/W parents: This variable provides the communication gap among mother 
and father. More age difference of mothers from fathers is considered as more 
communication gap. 
No. of Household Members: Children from larger households may sometimes get neglected. 
Parents and elders give more time to children in small households. 
Parent’s Education attainment level: Educated parents are considered more beneficial for 
healthcare of their children. 
Mother’s Working Status: Working mothers are considered to give less time as compared 
to those who do not work. Non-working mothers are considered as good caretaker of 
children. 
Maternal Language: this indicator is taken to cater the traditional setups and cultural norms 
in society. 
Wealth Possession: It gives possession of household assets that give life comfort. 
Households with poor cooking fuel, non-pakka household structure and other household 
assets are more likely to get chances of diarrhea among children as compared to those having 
pakka house structure, better energy sources and other household assets. 
Place of Residence: Least develop area bring more disease rates as there are less nearby 
health facilities as compared to develop areas. 
Regions: This variable gives regional variation in disease rates. 
Table 3. Variable construction and Types 
 
Variable 
Levels (categories) 
Variable Types 
Diarrhea 
Prevalence 
(dependent) 
Yes 
Dummy 
No 
Toilet Facility 
Improved 
Binary Dummy 
Unimproved 
Source 
of 
Drinking 
Water 
Improved 
-do- 
Unimproved 
Current age of child 
(months) 
0-5 
Categorical from continuous 
information of age reported in months 
6-11 
12-17 
18-59 
Gender of Child 
Male 
Nominal Binary 
Female 
Size of Child at Birth 
Larger 
Ordinal Categorical 
Average 
Small 
Birth Weight 
Below 2500 gm 
Binary from continuous information of 
weight of child reported in grams 
≤2500 gm and above 
Mother‟s Age 
15-19 
Categorical from continuous 
information of age reported in 
completed years 
20-24 
25-29 
30-34 
35-39 
40-44 
45-49 
Age difference B/W 
parents 
Less than 10 years 
Binary from continuous information 
calculated from difference of mother‟s 
age to father‟s age 
10 and above years 
No. 
of 
Household 
Members 
Less than 5 
Binary form from discrete response on 
numbers of members living in 
household 
5 and above 
Mothers 
Education 
attainment level 
Uneducated 
Ordinal categories developed from 
continuous completed years of 
Primary 
Secondary 
education attained 
Higher 
Father‟s 
Education 
attainment level 
Uneducated 
Primary 
Secondary 
Higher 
Mother‟s 
Working 
Status 
Not working 
Binary form 
Working 
Maternal Language 
Urdu 
Nominal catagories 
Siraiki 
Punjabi 
Sindhi 
Balochi 
Pushto 
Others 
Wealth Possession 
Poor 
Ordinal categories‟ from continuous 
scale 
Middle 
Rich 
Place of Residence 
Urban 
Nominal Categories 
Rural 
Regions 
Punjab 
Nominal Categories 
Sindh 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
Balochistan 
Islamabad 
Gilgit-Baltistan 
Statistical Analysis 
Descriptive statistics and regression analysis are performed on data to meet the objective of 
the study. Following is the brief of tools used in analysis. 
Descriptive Statistics 
Trends have been observed by line graphs of percentage of household with water and 
sanitation facilities and incidence of diarrhea in 1991, 2007 and upto 2013. These data are 
extracted from three rounds of PDHS (1990-91; 2006-07 and 2012-13). 
Cross Tabulation 
Incidence rate of diarrhea by sources of drinking water and sanitation facilities are calculated 
to highlight the vulnerable sources. These rates are also found for different population strata 
at national and sub national level. Besides these association background factors of water and 
sanitation facilities, demographic and socioeconomic factors is measured through chi-square 
test of independent association. The association is tested at 1%, 5% and 10% level of 
significance for measuring the strength of association. Potential hypothesis built for this 
testing are provided in following table:- 
Subnational level estimates of diarrhea are estimated through bivariate percentage 
distributions.  
Regression Analysis 
Multivariate Binary Logistic Regression Model (Anteneh, et al. 2017; Hosmer, et al. 2013) 
will highlight the impact of demographic, socioeconomic, background and environmental 
factors on prevalence of water-borne disease. This model assumes the response/dependent 
variable is a dummy variable in binary form. Mathematical form of the model is as under: 
     (        )     (
        
          
)                 
Where; 
P disease = is the probability that children (under five) have incidence of morbidity due to water 
borne diseases. 
β0 = Intercept (i.e. chances of provenance of disease) 
β1, β2, …, βj ; are the effects of demographic, socioeconomic, background and environmental 
factors. 
X1, X2, …, Xj ; are demographic, socioeconomic, background and environmental factors with 
levels. 
To see the individual impact of set of environmental factors i.e. sources of drinking water and 
sanitation facility, a separate equation was executed (Equation – 1). After words, their impact 
is observed along with social characteristic of mother i.e. education (Equation – 2). 
Demographic Characteristics intervened after social factor to influence the prevalence of 
diarrhea (Equation – 3) and in final model background factors i.e. wealth status joined in the 
set of environmental, social and demographic characteristics to influence diarrhea (Equation 
– 4). It constitutes four sets of equations.  
Estimates of logistic regression are interpreted in their transformed form of odds ratio. 
Positive odds are greater than 1.00 interpreted as more chances or more odds of an event to 
occur as compared to reference category and negative goes toward 0.00 interpreted as less 
chances of event of interest as compared to reference category. Odd of 1.00 are interpreted as 
equal chances of occurrence of an event as that of reference category. Term reference 
category is adopted to have benchmark based on literature or natural trends and patterns. A 
significant odd presents the most influential factor contributing positively or negatively to 
prevalence of diarrhea. 
Result & Analysis 
Current situation of health outcomes 
Post-neonatal (greater than 28 days from birth) deaths have a prominent proportion caused by 
diarrheal morbidity. There are almost 7 postnatal deaths (per thousand) that happen due to 
childhood morbidity of diarrhea and almost same is for the children under five years of age. 
Table 6. Summary of childhood diarrhea in Pakistan 
 
Health Outcomes 
Values 
Total number of Neonatal deaths due to diarrhea 
2,909 
Total number of Post-Neonatal deaths due to diarrhea 
36,575 
Number of Under-five deaths due to diarrhea 
39,484 
Neonatal death rate from diarrhea (per 1000 livebirths) 
1 
Post neonatal death rate from diarrhea (per 1000 livebirths) 
7 
Under-five death rate from diarrhea (per 1000 livebirths) 
7 
% post-neonatal deaths due to diarrhea 
20% 
% under-five deaths due to diarrhea 
9% 
Source: WHO and Maternal and Child Epidemiology Estimation Group (MCEE) estimates 20153 
4.1. Trends 
Nationally use of improved source of drinking water slightly inclined up (1990 to 2015). A 
significant improvement in use of improved sanitation is seen since 1990 to 2015. 
An opposite trend is observed among urban and rural area with regard to availability of 
improved water sources at households. Urban area could not increase the use of improved 
water for drinking whereas rural area shows improvement in its use. Use of improved 
sanitation facility has increased over time in both areas (urban and Rural). 
Figure 2. Trend in use of improved water and sanitation at household from 1990 to 
2015. 
 
 
Source: World Health Organization, 20154 
Diarrhea Morbidity 
                                                          
3 Go to link <http://apps.who.int/gho/data/node.main.ChildMort?lang=en> 
4 World Health Organization, Global Health Observatory, < 
http://apps.who.int/gho/data/node.main.46?lang=en> 
0
20
40
60
80
100
2015
2000
1990
Rural: Improved water source
Rural: Improved sanitation
Urban: Improved water source
Urban: Improved sanitation
All Area: Improved water source
All Area: Improved sanitation
Rates of childhood diarrhea have increased over time. Rural areas show high rates as 
compared to urban areas. 
Figure 3. Trends in Rates of diarrhea among children (0-59 months) by area of 
residence. 
 
 
Source: Pakistan Demographic and Health Surveys5. 
Nationally rates of diarrhea have increased to almost 22% since 1991 to 3013. Khyber 
Pakhtunkhwa emerged as prominent in increasing rates of diarrhea over time (1991 to 2013) 
and Balochistan comes with improving rates especially after 2006-07 to 2012-13. 
 
Figure4. Trends in Rates of diarrhea among children (0-59 months) by region of 
residence 
 
Source: Pakistan Demographic and Health Surveys6. 
Variation in rates of childhood diarrhea by environmental factors 
Incidences of diarrhea are more for households with not-improved toilet facility as compared 
to those with improved toilet facility. Incidence of childhood diarrhea emerge more for 
children belonging to households with pit latrine with slab.  
Punjab brings high diarrhea rates from pit latrine with slab and the same is for Khyber 
Pakhtunkhwa region; Islamabad Capital (ICT) and Gilgit-Baltistan (GB) territories. Sindh 
showing poor rates from latrine with flush to septic tank. 
                                                          
5 See Chapter “Child Health” PDHS 1990-91; 2006-07 & 2012-13. 
6 See Chapter “Child Health” PDHS 1990-91; 2006-07 & 2012-13. 
0
5
10
15
20
25
1990-91
2006-07
2012-13
Urban
Rural
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
1990-91
2006-07
2012-13
National
Punjab
Sindh
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Baluchistan
Hanging toilets and pit latrines without slabs emerge as prominent sources of diarrhea in 
country. Hanging toilets bring poorest situation at Sindh with almost 100% incidence rate. 
Same as type of toilet facility, the sources of drinking water shows that there are more 
incidences of diarrhea for household with not-improved source of water facilities. 
Among Improved sources of drinking water facilities, the tap water/sand pipes bringing more 
diarrhea and it bring more diarrhea rates at Punjab region. Piped to yards supporting diarrhea 
more at Sindh, Rainwater spread diarrhea more prevalent at Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, most 
vulnerable at hand pumps at Balochistan regions and ICT/GB territories. 
Unprotected springs emerge as most vulnerable for children under five in Pakistan. 
Unprotected wells come with high diarrhea at Punjab. Unprotected springs are prominent 
source of diarrhea at Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region and ICT/GB territories.  
National Level Incidence Rates of Childhood Diarrhea 
Age and Size at Birth of children; age of mother, age difference among parents, Household 
size and educational attainment of parents, working status within last 12 months and wealth 
status of mothers and regions from where children belong are found statistically significant 
subgroups of population surrounding children with diarrhea. 
Following table presents that incidence of diarrhea is more children with less than 2-years 
age. Children born small and having low birth weight are vulnerable and pray to diarrhea 
disease. As soon as age of mother increases the prevalence of diarrhea decreases and higher 
age difference among parents showing more rates of diarrhea among children under five. 
Children belonging to Small households, highly educated parents and mothers who do not 
work have least chances of diarrhea diseases. 
Children from mothers with Sindhi, Siraiki and Pashto ethnicity, living in rural areas, 
belonging to mothers with worse wealth status and children living at Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
region are more likely to get diarrhea disease.  
Sub National level Incidence Rates of Childhood Diarrhea 
Except Islamabad Capital/Gilgit Baltistan territories, the rates of diarrhea are more for 
children from households with non-improved water and sanitation facilities. Khyber 
Pakhtunkhwa brings 31% diarrhea rates among children with non-improved sanitation facility 
where as in Balochistan the situation is better. 
Children aged 12-17 months prevailing diarrheas highest especially at Sindh. Gender gap is 
visible at Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan regions. Almost 33% Children born with 
small size are having diarrhea at Sindh.  
Urdu speaking population from Punjab and ICT/GB, Sindhi speaking people from Sindh and 
Balochi speaking people in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan suffer from high 
prevalence of diarrhea among their children. Least prevalence of diarrhea (8%) is observable 
at Khyber Pakhtukhwa, among children from highly educated mothers and almost highest 
rates are visible from working mothers from same region. Poor children showing high 
diarrhea at Punjab, Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa where as these high rates shifted to 
children from middle class from Balochistan and ICT/GB regions. 
District level Incidence Rates of Childhood Diarrhea 
Punjab 
District level estimates highlights that, Sheikhupura district brings highest level of diarrhea 
among children from households with improved sanitation (22%) and this situation is worst 
for households with not improve sanitation facility (29%) at Sheikhupura. From improved 
drinking water facility after Hafizabad district (24% diarrhea cases), Sheikhupra is most 
vulnerable (23% diarrhea cases). However, for children from households with non-improved 
drinking water, the cases of diarrhea found highest for Rajanpur (54%), Lahore (50%) and 
Okara (50%) districts. 
For children belonging to mothers educated higher than secondary level, the cases of diarrhea 
are found least at Layyah (less than 1%) then lodhran and Chakwal with 4% respectively. 
Highest rates of diarrhea are found at Hafizabad (26%) for children from uneducated 
mothers. We have seen that as soon as age of child moves up after 23 months, the rate of 
diarrhea decreases. Sahiwal district appears most vulnerable (35%) for children with less than 
6 months age. Gujranwala appears most vulnerable for children (6-11 months) regarding 41% 
prevalence of childhood diarrhea. At age of 48 to 59 months, highest rates of diarrhea are 
evident at Rajanpur (15%) whereas Jhang comes with least prevalence of diarrhea (2%) for 
same age groups. Chiniot is district where almost 33% diarrhea persists among children born 
small. After Chiniot, Sheikhupura is found with 28% diarrhea prevalence and then Lahore 
comes with 26% rate of diarrhea among small size children. Chiniot is district with least 
prevalence of diarrhea for children born with large size (4%) and Chakwal comes after 
Chiniot district where there are only 8% of large size children having diarrhea. Cases of 
diarrhea are highest at Bahawalnagar (43%) for children from mothers having age 45-49 
years. In younger ages of mother, Gujranwala (44%) is district that shows highest rates of 
diarrhea. Wealth inequality shows a higher prevalence of childhood diarrhea at Lahore (29%) 
then Multan (26%) and Rawalpindi (25%) in poorest households whereas, least are recorded 
from Vehari (5%) for richest children. Urban areas showing high prevalence of diarrhea 
among children from Gujranwala (26%) and least is evident at Rahimyar Khan (7%). Rural 
areas bringing high rates of childhood diarrhea at Rajanpur (24%) and least is at Chakwal 
(7%).  
Sindh 
Districts of Tando Allahyar and Badin are showing large proportion (41% respectively) of 
diarrhea among children from households with improved drinking water source. For non-
improved water sources, prevalence of diarrhea raised to 50% especially at Sukkur and 
Karachi South districts, respectively. 
Badin shows high diarrhea (43%) among children from households with improved toilet 
facility where the situation is worst at Karachi East (50%) and Karachi Central (almost 
100%). 
Poorest situation can be seen at Ghotki where almost 56% children, from middle educated 
mothers, have diarrhea followed by Kashmore district with 50% for same children. Children 
from mothers educated higher than secondary level have highest rates of 50% diarrhea 
prevalence at Matiari and Thatta with 40%. 
It is observed that diarrhea is least for children aged 24 to 59 months and highest for children 
under 24-months age. Tando Allahyar is district where high rates of diarrhea (71%) emerge 
for children (6-11 months). At age of 48 to 59 months that better situation can be seen at 
Shikarpur (4%).  
Prevalence of diarrhea is almost 71% for small children at Umer Kot and 50% Thatta district 
of Sindh. For average children the prevalence of diarrhea is recorded as 44% at Hyderabad 
and 43% at Tando Allahyar districts. Karachi South has almost 52%5 prevalence of diarrhea 
among children. 
It is evident that 89% of children from younger mothers (15-19 years) caught by diarrhea at 
Hyderabad followed by 75% at Karachi South. As soon as age of mother increases the 
chances of diarrhea among their children also increases. Urban Areas of Nausheroferoz 
providing almost 41% prevalence of diarrhea followed by 39% at Hyderabad. In rural areas, 
Tando Allahyar with 44% followed by Badin and Mirpur Khas with 40%. These are most 
vulnerable districts. 
The districts of Tando Allahyar (46% diarrhea), Badin (40% diarrhea) and Umer Kot (38% 
diarrhea) brings high rates among poor children. Middle class are facing 41% at Hyderabad 
and 40% at Karachi East. Children from rich households are showing lowest rates in 
Larakana (6%) and Jacobabad (8%). 
Determinants of Diarrhoea: Multivariate Analysis Results 
Following table provides the impact of environmental (toilet and drinking water facility), 
socioeconomic (education and working status), demographic (age of child and mother, 
gender of child and size of child at birth) and background characteristics (ethnicity, 
household wealth status and region of residence of children) on prevalence rate of diarrhea 
among children under five. 
Interestingly, not-Improved drinking water sources emerge as significant with less chances of 
diarrhea as compared to improved one. More chances of diarrhea emerge in full model where 
socioeconomic, demographic and background characteristics are contributing.  
 As soon as education of mother improves the chances of diarrhea depreciates. Expectedly, 
children from working mothers are almost 1.2 times more likely to get diarrhea as compared 
to those from non-working mothers.  
Female children, children having at-least 18 months age are least likely to have diarrhea as 
compared to male children and those with age least than six months, respectively. Children 
born small have high odds of diarrheas as compared to large size children. Children 
belonging to mothers with Punjabi and Siraiki ethnicity are less likely to have diarrhea as 
compared to children belonging to urdu ethnic mothers. Children who are rich are less likely 
to get diarrhea as compared to poor children and those belonging to Sindh and Gilgit-
Baltistan regions have least chance of childhood diarrhea as compared to children from 
Punjab region. 
Conclusion 
This study shows insightful results on the effects of availability of Safe drinking water and 
proper sanitation facilities on child morbidity and mortality rates across the four provinces. It 
also throws light on the effects of the mother‟s age, education, ethnicity and working status 
on the health and well-being of the child.  
Moreover, our study highlights the incidence of childhood morbidity due to diarrhea among 
children from households using different type of toilet and drinking water facility. The study 
looks inside the correlates of diarrhea not only at National Level but also Provincial and 
District Level. Provincially, Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa regions found with highest rates 
of diarrhea. In Sindh Tando Allahyar, Matiati, Hyderabad, Badin, Karachi East and Karachi 
South are found most vulnerable areas where prevalence of diarrhea found non-ignorable and 
it is surrounded by poor households, children with mothers married in early ages, children 
having small size at birth and ages less than 24 months and children belonging to uneducated 
mothers. 
Although Punjab comes with lower rates of diarrhea morbidity but in some districts like 
Rajanpur, Rahimyar Khan, Lahore, Gujranwala and Rawalpindi where situation is not proper 
due to poverty, early age marriages, small size of babies at birth etc. 
It has been observed that the prevalence of most common water born disease i.e. childhood 
diarrhoea, in the presence of improved and non-improved sources of drinking water and type 
of toilet facility. These two variables are often considered as common environmental 
household level indictors. It was hypothesized that use of improved sources of drinking water 
and sanitation may support the decrease in rates of childhood diarrhoea. Regression analysis 
provide evidence in support of our hypothesis that, disease rate does not improve if 
unimproved water and sanitation prevails. Especially source of drinking water put significant 
impact on diarrhoea rates. 
Education and working status of mother were considered to depict the socio economic factors 
influencing childhood diarrhea. Educated mothers are hypothesized to be beneficial for less 
prevalence of diarrhea. In this regard, our investigation shows that, educated mothers are 
highly influential. Working status of mothers shows some kind of empowerment and 
autonomy of women. Economically active women may contribute to support the household 
economic status hence contributing to child health care. In Pakistani society mother are 
usually less likely to work and husbands are considered as major working person to regulate 
the household prosperity. Mothers who do not work are more likely to spend time better with 
their children as compared to working ones. Our data shows significant impact of working 
status on childhood diarrhea and provide evidence according to our assumptions and 
hypothesis. 
On assumption of decrease in rates of diarrhea due to improvement in child health immunity 
with growing ages, a hypothesis was developed to test it and we found that current age of 
child is highly influential to monitor the rates of diarrhea. Size of child at birth and weight of 
child at birth were included to see health status of baby at the time of birth. Children with 
smaller body sizes are assumed to be less immune, and as body size increase it was 
considered that body‟s immunity against diseases linearly increases and child may fight better 
if they have better health status at the beginning of life. From analysis of data it was 
concluded that rates of diarrhea are lower for children who are born with bigger body size. 
Besides the demographics of child, the age of mother was considered in system of equation 
(model 3 and 4) with hypothesis that, as soon as age of mother increases, experience of 
caretaking for her child improves and child may less likely to suffer from morbidity. This 
demographic factor highlighted as highly influential for prevalence of diarrhea. As soon as 
age of mother increases the chance of childhood diarrhea decreases. 
Ethnicity of the children was taken as a cultural factor showing cultural differences in 
childhood diarrheal morbidity. Sindhi are highlighted with high chances of childhood 
diarrhea as compared to Urdu ethnic children. 
Wealth status was considered to depict the household prosperity with better possession of 
assets. Children from households with better wealth status are hypothesized to less likely to 
catch by diarrhea disease. Against the null hypothesis of increasing chances of diarrhea for 
poor children, we found that diarrhea is less likely for wealthy children. Regions were 
included with hypothesis that diarrhea is prevailing variably among regions. 
The study looks inside the correlates of diarrhea not only at National Level but also 
Provincial and District Level. We conclude our study as, provincially, Sindh and Khyber 
Pakhtunkhwa regions found with highest rates of diarrhea. In Sindh Tando Allahyar, Matiati, 
Hyderabad, Badin, Karachi East and Karachi South are found most vulnerable districts f 
Sindh where prevalence of diarrhoea found non-ignorable and it is surrounded by poor 
households, children with mothers married in early ages, children having small size at birth 
and ages less than 24 months and children belonging to uneducated mothers. 
Although Punjab comes with lower rates of diarrhoea morbidity but in some districts like 
Rajanpur, Rahimyar Khan, Lahore, Gujranwala and Rawalpindi where situation is not up to 
the standard due to poverty, early age marriages, small size of babies at birth etc. 
 
Policy Recommendations 
If we are committed to improve water and sanitation, we need a coherent policy framework 
and investment in the Water and Sanitation sector to improve our people's health and life. 
National Water and Wastewater Policies documents provide a comprehensive framework of 
measures. Nevertheless, these policies should be followed every five years, including mid-
term evaluations and independent evaluations. Water supply and management agencies 
should be responsible for maintaining the water quality in the water distribution system to the 
consumer level, which provides cooling amplifier at various pumping stations. The role of 
development partners and the private sector for development in the Water and Sanitation 
sector is very important. The government should encourage the private sector to provide 
Water and Sanitation services, as is the case with other social sectors, such as health and 
education. The Water and Sanitation service is the legal responsibility of the provinces and 
local authorities, so policymakers and local government officials should understand the 
deterioration situation and support the increase in the share of Water and Sanitation's 
expenditure on gross national product. 
Water and Sanitation costs, as given in the PRSP, provide collective costs that do not show 
the proportion of water and sanitation separately. Therefore, it is not feasible to assess the 
impact of costs on water and sanitation separately without defaults. But in the local 
government system, 25 percent of the total provincial development budget is compelled to 
pay by the Citizens' Society Citizen Community Boards (CCBs). Creating awareness of the 
results of CCBs can lead to changes in the living conditions of the poor. Communities should 
be encouraged to spend on their interest in the Qarz al-Hasan funds. For effective awareness, 
educational institutions, mosques, including mass media, should be used to understand the 
importance of quality and quantity of water among users. Volt and the private sector support 
small and small schemes for income generation opportunities only. They also need to invest 
in small and medium-sized loans to communities and / or households in their infrastructure. 
These experiments were successful in Bangladesh and India. This will ultimately improve the 
health and living standards. 
The government should support Water and Sanitation plans at an efficient and low cost. In 
addition, the provision of household subsidies to households, taking into account drinking 
water treatment at the consumer / household level, should cost rather than costly in complex 
and costly designs. Waste water should be minimized and eliminate 30 to 50% of all drinking 
water. Awareness must be necessary in order to minimize deceptive and unsustainable 
activities, such as the use of stony water for washing cars or irrigation of lawns and gardens. 
Each of us must understand that less water usage means less wastewater production. 
Water supply agencies should install meters to charge consumers based on "pay as you use." 
In such interventions, departments like WASA and CDA can play a major role. 
There is also a need to increase the percentage of Budget to GDP for the improvement of 
Water and Sanitation in the country.  
If immediate action is not taken to address these issues, the amount and quality of the 
remaining water will have a negative impact on health, education and economic sectors. The 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) must ensure, before discharging it to the 
mainstreams, and to improve the drainage network, ensuring higher sanitary coverage, 
ensuring household waste disposal, commercial and industrial units.  
References 
1. 
Anteneh, Z. A., Andargie, K., & Tarekegn, M. (2017). Prevalence and determinants of 
acute diarrhea among children younger than five years old in Jabithennan District, Northwest 
Ethiopia, 2014. BMC Public Health, 17(1), 99. 
2. 
Arif, A., & Naheed, R. (2012). Socio-economic determinants of diarrhea morbidity in 
Pakistan. Academic Research International, 2(1), 490. 
3. 
Aziz, J.A., 2005. Management of source and drinking-water quality in Pakistan. 
4. 
Fahim Jahangir Khan and Yaser Javed (2007) “Delivering access to safe drinking 
water and adequate sanitation in Pakistan” Pakistan institute of development economics 
5. 
Fayehun, O. A. (2010). Household environmental health hazards and child survival in 
sub-Saharan Africa. 
6. 
Government of Pakistan, „Economic Survey of Pakistan 2008–09‟ 
7. 
Haydar S, Arshad M, Aziz JA. 2009. Evaluation of drinking water quality in urban 
areas of Pakistan: A case study of southern Lahore. Pakistan Journal of Engineering and 
Applied Science 5, 16-23.  
8. 
Hosmer Jr, D. W., Lemeshow, S., & Sturdivant, R. X. (2013). Applied logistic 
regression (Vol. 398). John Wiley & Sons. 
9. 
Imran, W., Zahir, Z., Khan, H., Pasha, M. I. K., & Anjum, M. D. INCIDENCE OF 
diarrhea among new born children is affected by environment of households. Retrieved from 
<https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Waqas_Imran/publication/265972677_INCIDENCE_
OF_DIARRHEA_AMONG_NEW_BORN_CHILDREN_IS_AFFECTED_BY_ENVIRONM
ENT_OF_HOUSEHOLDS/links/5422a4f30cf26120b7a270ff.pdf> 
10. 
Montgomery, M. A. and Elimelech, M. 2007. Water and Sanitation in Developing 
Countries: Including Health in the Equation. Environmental Science and Technology, 41:17-
24. <http://pubs.acs.org/doi/pdf/10.1021/es072435t> 
11. 
Muhammad N, Bangush M, Khan AT. 2012. Microbial contamination in well water 
of temporary arranged camps: A health risk in northern Pakistan. Water Quality Exposure 
and Health 4(4), 209-215. <http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12403-012-0080-0> 
12. 
Murtaza, F., Nasir, Z. A., Colbeck, I., & Campos, L. C. (2015). Socio-environmental 
determinant of exposure to water and sanitation related hazards in Pakistan. Journal of 
Animal and Plant Sciences, 25, 725-703.   
13. 
Prüss, A., Kay, D., Fewtrell, L., & Bartram, J. (2002). Estimating the burden of 
disease from water, sanitation, and hygiene at a global level.  Environmental health 
perspectives, 110(5), 
537-542. 
Available 
at 
http://www.who.int/quantifying_ehimpacts/global/en/ArticleEHP052002.pdf 
14. 
Rana, A.K.M.M., 2009, Effect of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Intervention in 
Reducing self-reported Waterborne Diseases in Rural Bangladesh, BRAC Research Report, 
www.brac.net/research [Published: Dec 2009] 
15. 
Rosemann N. Drinking water crisis in Pakistan and the issue of bottled water. The 
case of Nestlé's Pure Life. Pakistan: Swiss Coalition of Development Organizations and 
Action aid; 2005. Retrieved from <http://www.alliancesud.ch/en/policy/water/downloads/ 
nestle-pakistan.pdf> 
16. 
UNICEF. 2008. UNICEF Handbook on Water Quality. New York: UN Plaza, 118 -
119.  
