Papers and Proceedings  
pp. 917–934 
917  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water in 
Pakistan: A Defensive Behaviour Approach 
  
FIZZAH IFTIKHAR ALLAWALA,  SALIK JAVED BARRY, and 
 MUHAMMAD SAMEER KAYANI*  
 
The urbanisation and the population boom in the last few centuries have resulted in 
extreme deterioration of the environment and production of excessive externalities. Over time, 
it has resulted in a dire impact on the health of human beings, ultimately impacting the 
economic and social prosperity of human beings all around the globe. Water pollution is one 
such externality which has led to many epidemics in the past. The present study provides an 
investigation into the health effects due to unsafe drinking water among households in 
Pakistan. The study utilises cross-sectional data from Pakistan Demographic and Health 
Survey (PDHS) 2012-13 which is representative at the national and provincial levels. Using 
household as the unit of analysis with a sample size of 13,409, the paper uses 2SLS model to 
estimate a dose-response function and a defensive behaviour function to determine the 
effectiveness of treatment of drinking water on the prevalence of diarrheal diseases among 
households in Pakistan. Moreover, since defensive behaviour is a choice variable, it has also 
been checked for endogeneity. The results conform to the reviewed literature and the economic 
theory that defensive behaviour leads to a lower prevalence of diarrheal diseases among 
households of Pakistan. This study finds that household exhibiting defensive behaviour, i.e. 
treating water prior to drinking, are is 31.5 percent less likely to report any cases of diarrheal 
diseases in the household as opposed to those not employing any such method. Possible 
recommendations and future research agenda have been provided at the conclusion of the 
study to assist researchers further the results in this regard. The results of the study could assist 
in devising policies which could be helpful in developing sustainable societies where clean 
water is readily available.  
JEL Classification: Q53, I15, H51   
Keywords: Water Pollution, Health, Pakistan  
 
1.  INTRODUCTION 
Being the prime factor for the origination of life, access to safe and clean drinking 
water is a highly crucial determinant of a healthy human life. However, since the dawn of 
 
Fizzah Iftikhar Allawala, Salik Javed Barry,  and Muhammad Sameer Kayani <sameer.kayani5@ 
hotmail.com> are affiliated with Institute of Business Administration (IBA), Karachi. 
Authors’ Note:  First and foremost, we would like to thank our research supervisor, Dr Heman Das 
Lohano. Without his assistance and dedicated involvement in every step throughout the process, this research 
would have never been accomplished. From conceptual framework and economic modelling to data analysis, 
the guidance provided by Dr Heman has been a tremendous learning opportunity for us. We would also like to 
thank the numerous organisations and institutions whose databases and resources have been utilised throughout 
the research process to accomplish the concerned objectives. Finally, we would also like to express our 
gratitude towards all the friends and family members whose contribution of their time, effort, guidance and 
opinion have assisted us in refining the results and completion of this study. 
918 
Allawala,  Barry, and  Kayani 
  
the Industrial Revolution, the global urbanisation coupled with the population boom has 
resulted in an unprecedented stress on the scarce resources available. One significant 
consequence of the aforementioned phenomenon is the consistent increase in the 
environmental externalities owing to anthropogenic activities. According to the World 
Health Organisation, in terms of deaths per year, 58 percent of the total DALY global 
burden of disease (842,000 deaths) can be attributed to unsafe drinking water, inadequate 
sanitation, and poor hygiene. A standard measure of unsafe water provision and 
inadequate sanitation is the incidence and prevalence of diarrheal diseases. These alone 
amounts to an estimated 3.6 percent of the total DALY global burden of disease and 
resulting in mortality estimates of 1.5 million people every year.1   
Pakistan is a developing country with an average annual income of $1275 and 64 
percent of its population lives in rural areas.2  Taking into account the situation in Pakistan, 
although about 93.7 percent of the household in Pakistan has access to improved water 
sources, 30.4 percent of the households still have no access to any kind of improved sanitation 
[DHS (2012-13)]. According to WHO, the mortality rate owing to diarrheal diseases almost 
halved between 2000 and 2015, but still resulted in 1.4 million deaths in 2015.3 Similar 
ranking was assigned to the distribution of causes of death in children under 5 with 11 percent 
of the infant mortality being attributed to the cause.4 Diarrheal diseases remain the leading 
causes of childhood deaths in Pakistan that are preventable with primary health care measures 
[NIPS and Macro International (2008)]. Such alarming mortality rate among children warrant 
attention towards the probable link between the provisions of unsafe drinking water, poor 
sanitation and the incidence of diarrheal diseases among children, particularly in rural areas. 
Since the poor health of children is representative of current as well as the future economic 
burden, the present study investigates whether, and to what extent, the households which 
employ techniques to treat water prior to drinking are successful in thwarting diarrheal 
diseases as opposed to those who use unsafe water for drinking purposes.  
The first step to formalise the relationship between the concerned variables will be 
an exhaustive review of the previously published literature on this topic. In light of the 
aforementioned discussion, the optimal methodology when drafting the literature review 
in this context is to form interconnected themes, each one elaborating particular aspect of 
the concerned topic. Here, the first theme will comprehensively develop the deteriorating 
effects of water pollution on the population of Pakistan through various qualitative and 
quantitative research previously carried out. The next theme will be a detailed insight into 
the methodologies that have been previously adopted to substantiate the link between 
water pollution and the health effects followed by the valuation of these consequences in 
monetary terms. A critical analysis of the most relevant literature from all the themes will 
form the crux of the last segment of the literature view along with identification of gaps 
in the literature and the contribution that this report will make to fill this gap potentially. 
Following the review of the literature, data will be selected from appropriate sources, a 
formal relationship will be estimated between the selected variables, and the results will 
be interpreted in the light of the literature review. Conclusively, policy recommendations 
will be provided along with potential directions into which further research can be taken.   
 
1http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/diseases-risks/en/ 
2http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.RUR.TOTL.ZS  
3http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs310/en/ 
4http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs330/en/ 
 
Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water  
919 
 
2.  LITERATURE REVIEW 
Since the wake of Industrial Revolution during the late 18th century, pollution has 
been present as the negative externality of the mechanical and economic transformation; 
but it is relatively recently that it has been considered a problem. Although higher 
economies of scale are the result of modern industrialisation along with the formation of 
urban centres, these same factors also result in various externalities, the most important 
of which is environmental degradation. This is due to the simple fact that public, 
legislative and scientific awareness of the seriousness of air pollution has come only, 
after many major episodes, in the last decade.    
 
2.1.  BOD due to Unsafe Drinking Water—Local Evidence 
Water being the crucial factor for the existence of life, access to clean drinking 
water is the most imperative determinant for a healthy human life. Water pollution has 
become one of the crucial factors impacting the public health. Pakistan has poor drinking 
water quality since water sources are contaminated with harmful chemicals and bacteria. 
The benchmark set by WHO regarding water quality in Pakistan is continuously being 
violated. This has become a source of concern for both urban and rural areas. Toxic 
metals, pesticides and improper treatment of sewage waste before dumping in water has 
been responsible for the contamination of ground and surface water.   
Haydar, Arshad, and Aziz (2009) attempted to assess the quality of water in 
Lahore, supplied by Water and Sanitation Agency (WASA). Water samples were 
collected before and after monsoon from four different sources in southern Lahore. Four 
most important physicochemical parameters and two bacteriological parameters were 
examined and were also analysed with respect to the benchmark provided by World 
Health Organisation (WHO) regarding clean drinking water. Results revealed that 
physicochemical parameter of clean drinking water was observed to be satisfactory; 
however, before the monsoon, 50 to 62.5 percent samples had presence of bacteriological 
contamination. It was also estimated that contaminated water supply sources are 
responsible for 40 percent of deaths and 30 percent of the diseases in Pakistan. Diarrhea 
was found to be majorly responsible for the death of infants. Hence, it can be concluded 
that water pollution is heavily responsible for poor public health as it contaminates the 
water sources. This study recommends that chlorination of water is imperative to 
eradicate the bacteriological contamination.  
Ashraf, Maah, Yusoff, and Mehmood (2010) investigated the polluted water 
irrigation impact on the health of people living in Jamber, Kasur district, Pakistan and 
also its impact on the environment. Theoretically, it’s evident that using polluted water 
for irrigation will alter groundwater quality and will exhibit negative impact on the health 
of people and environment. To analyse the water quality, various parameters were 
examined including physiochemical parameters, cations, anions, heavy metals and 
sodium absorption ratio. To evaluate the results, they were compared with National 
Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and they revealed that increase in conductivity, 
sodium absorption ratio and total dissolved solids had been observed due to polluted 
water used for irrigation since they exceed the prescribed limit of NEQS. For further 
analysis, a survey was conducted by interviewing 3222 inhabitants for 12 months. Results 
revealed that 2351 inhabitants were impacted by various diseases. The problems affiliated 
920 
Allawala,  Barry, and  Kayani 
  
due to polluted water irrigation were mainly skin issues, nail problem, fever and diarrhea. 
It further indicated that these diseases results due to the usage of polluted water for 
drinking or irrigation purposes and mainly impacted children with age 1-10. The results 
obtained in Jamber was quite similar to the analysis done in southern Lahore by Haydar, 
Arshad, and Aziz (2009) as it also stated that exposure to water pollution leads to disease 
like diarrhoea which was common among children and infant. Improvement in sanitation 
facilities and proper drainage system are some possible solutions suggested by the 
authors to rectify the issue of water contamination.   
Similarly, the analysis of water quality provided by Ashraf, Maah, Yusoff, and 
Mehmood (2010) at a local level was further extended to the whole of Pakistan by 
Azizullah, Khattak, Richter, and Häder (2011) as they discussed the prevailing condition 
of poor drinking water quality in Pakistan. They have attempted to analyse the major 
pollutants, health issues related to these pollutants and their sources. Conclusions drawn 
were similar to Ashraf (2010) and Haydar (2009), as it also strengthens the claim 
regarding children being highly impacted by diarrheal diseases due to exposure to water 
contamination and poor drinking water quality. The data evaluated was extracted from a 
variety of papers in various journals. The critical evaluation of data validates the 
mentioned concern and also revealed that immediate measures need to be undertaken. It 
also discusses the environmental legislation introduced in Pakistan and raises the concern 
on the commitment of government since these legislations have been ineffective to tackle 
the issue mainly due to the absence of sincerity at the higher level. 
The presence of heavy metal in water channels used for drinking purposes can be 
extremely hazardous to health, as discussed in the literature. To further strengthen the 
validation of this claim Muhammad, Shah, and Khan (2011) evaluated the health risk 
associated with the presence of high heavy metal concentration in the surface and ground 
water samples from Kohistan region, Pakistan, used for drinking purposes. Graphite 
fumace atomic absorption spectrometer was used to investigate the heavy metal 
concentration and compared with standard limits provided by World Health Organisation 
and Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency (PEPA). Furthermore, health risk was 
evaluated such as Hazard Quotient (HQ) and Chronic Daily Intake (CDI) using the heavy 
metal concentration. Results of CDI revealed that the concentration of zinc (Zn) was 
highest while Cobalt (Co) had the lowest concentration. Moreover, no risk on health was 
indicated by HQ on the water samples that were evaluated. The concentration of the 
majority of heavy metals was within given bench mark set by PEPA and WHO. 
Anthropogenic and geogenic activities were held majorly responsible for the 
contamination of water in Kohistan, by multivariate statistical analysis for example 
cluster analysis (CA), principal component analysis (PCA) and one-way ANOVA. The 
author concluded that water in the examined area does not influence health negatively, 
but also suggest that since some heavy metal exceed the permissible limits like lead (Pb) 
in water samples, it is advisable to consume the water after the treatment.  
Further Investigation of deterioration of drinking water quality in different urban 
areas of Pakistan was also done. Farid, Baloch and Ahmed (2012) evaluated the 
contamination of drinking water in Faisalabad due to rapid boom in urbanisation and 
industrialisation in past decade. Since the discharge of untreated and excess toxic solid 
waste from industries into water channels has led to disastrous consequences on health 
 
Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water  
921 
 
due to deterioration of drinking water quality as hazardous toxic and metal concentration 
has increased in ground water. Like Ashraf, Maah, Yusoff, and Mehmood (2010), the 
author used the same technique to evaluate water samples that were collected from hand 
pumps located within a circle of 10 meters of the sewage source. Parameters evaluated 
included pH, Total Dissolved Solids, hardness, few anions and cations by using the 
technique prescribed by American society for testing and materials. Moreover, the 
presence of some heavy metal ions was analysed using series atomic absorption 
spectrophotometer. Result validates the hypothesis claim that high contamination of these 
samples made the water from hand pumps unfit for human consumption. The author also 
proposed that to curtail the high level of contamination, it is essential to treat industrial 
waste before dumping it into water bodies and also to install water pumps at least 20 
meters away from sewage channels.  
Further evaluation was done in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa by Khan, 
Shahnaz, Jehan, Rehman, Shah, and Din (2013) analysing the drinking water quality and 
its associated risk on human health in Charasadda district. For this purpose samples of 
water from tube-wells, hand pumps and dug-wells were collected and investigated for 
physical characteristics, coliform bacteria, heavy metals and anions similar to the analysis 
done by Haydar, Arshad, and Aziz (2009) and Ashraf, Maah, Yusoff,  and Mehmood 
(2010). Analysis revealed that concentration of Nitrates and sulfates were exceeding the 
prescribed limit as set by PEPA and WHO. High concentration of some heavy metals like 
lead (Pb) and Iron (Fe) were also exceeding the prescribed limit. Moreover, the presence 
of coliform bacterial contamination was also confirmed. Author extended its 
investigation by exploring the causes behind water contamination in this district and it 
was found that improper sewage disposal, over usage of pesticide and fertilisers and poor 
piping network is responsible for this prevailing situation in this district. To examine the 
impact on health due to bacterial contamination, the author used questionnaire survey 
which revealed similar results as of Haydar, Arshad, and Aziz (2009). Bacterial 
contamination was found to be majorly responsible for diarrhea and other related water-
borne diseases. To make the evaluation more constructive, the author also recommended 
some measures like awareness among women and children and proper treatment of 
sewage disposal in order to rectify this prevailing issue in that district.  
Qadir and Malik (2011) provided evidence that impact on aquatic life due to water 
pollution can harm public health. Similarly, Waseem, Arshad, Iqbal, Sajjad, Mehmood, 
and Murtaza (2014) investigated the impact of contamination of water, vegetables and 
soil impact on public health in Pakistan.  Samples of water and vegetables were collected 
and then they were analysed. Results revealed that metal contamination in vegetables, 
soil and water have severely impacted drinking water quality, food chain and ecological 
environment which in turn exposes a great threat to human health. To evaluate the health 
impact author has used different studies in various parts of Pakistan in order to validate 
the aforementioned claim.  
Similarly, Qureshi (2014) did an overall assessment of water quality in Pakistan 
like Azizullah, Khattak, Richter, and Häder (2011). He analysed physiochemical 
parameters, bacteriological parameters, concentration of heavy metals, sodium absorption 
ratio, total dissolved solids and few other parameters from various water samples and 
samples of toxic waste from various industries that are eventually dumped into water 
922 
Allawala,  Barry, and  Kayani 
  
channels. The evaluation revealed the presence of microbial contamination is present in 
water in many areas. It further revealed that water quality is deteriorating due to lack of 
proper attention. High concentration of heavy metals was observed due to the disposal of 
untreated sewage waste into water bodies. The author also suggests that all major cities 
should have sewage treatment plants and also laid emphasis on the formulation of 
national standards for drinking water quality that can help to tackle the prevailing poor 
water quality condition in Pakistan.  
After a thorough review of the existing literature, we were not able to find any 
study assessing the link between the unsafe drinking water and the prevalence of 
diarrheal diseases in the country along with the effectiveness of any defensive activity 
against the diseases. We hope that the present study will prove to be an initiation into a 
new arena of research that the future researchers will carry forward.  
 
2.2. Valuation of Health Effects due to Unsafe Drinking Water 
A seminal study in this context was performed by Alberini, Eskeland, Krupnick, 
and McGranahan (1996) who estimated the effects of infrastructural and behavioural 
variables on the prevalence of diarrheal diseases in Jakarta using household defensive 
expenditure function. Employing a major household survey conducted by the Stockholm 
Environment Institute in 1991, the authors have attempted to model two simultaneous 
equations representing the diarrheal illness and the defensive behaviour by the household 
using bivariate probit regression; however, owing to the fact that almost all the 
households included in the sample boil their water prior to drinking, the study utilises 
hand-washing as the proxy for defensive behaviour. The results indicate that interruptions 
in the water supply act as hindrance to defensive behaviour (handwashing) which results 
in a higher incidence of diarrheal diseases. Consequently, the presence of a washbasin 
near the latrine area is strongly associated with defensive behaviour and leads to lower 
illness. The authors, however, also point out the fact that the incidence of illness in the 
sample used was really low and hence hypothesis-testing was rather difficult.   
Influencing the work of Dasgupta (2004) (from which this study partially draws 
inspiration from), the author attempted to value health consequences of water pollution in 
Delhi. Using a health production function framework, the author jointly estimated the 
dose-response and the defensive behaviour functions to model real-life situations. The 
WTA measure for the reduction in water quality for the entire population of Delhi has 
been estimated using cost-of-illness (COI) framework eventually. Dwight, Fernandez, 
Baker, Semenza and Olsen (2005) also utilised an extensive COI approach to value the 
GI, ARI, ear and eye ailments resulting from polluted recreational waters in Orange 
County, California. The resulting costs are considerable which can be utilised along with 
the public health cost variable introduced in the paper for CBA purposes when devising 
abatement strategies.   
Realising the increasing prominence of non-point source pollution, Baerenklau, 
Bishop and Stumborg (2001) employed a contingent valuation study to estimate the WTP 
of Wisconsin residents for improvement in the water quality of Lake Mendota. Using a 
Tobit estimation technique, the study realised that there will be considerable possible 
aggregate net benefits in the future if the plan of Improvement in the recreational site in 
undertaken. However, it also points out the recurring theme in literature that utilising 
 
Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water  
923 
 
market interest rates for discounting costs and benefits fails to capture all aspects of the 
intertemporal decision-making process. Estimation of WTP for water pollution abatement 
in several European remote lakes was also carried out by Mahieu and Giergiczny (2012); 
however, they employed an interval data model using data collected through payment 
card method. Ramajo-Hernandez and Saz-Salazar (2012) also conducted a similar CV 
study for the Guadiana River Basin of Spain and estimated WTP using logit and spike 
models to account for null WTP.   
Barton (2002) and Barton and Mourato (2003) undertook nearly identical studies 
to assess the reliability of benefit transfer methods to value water quality improvement. 
Barton (2002) conducted the study at two different sites in Costa Rica, carrying out 
contingent valuation studies at the two places; while Barton and Mourato (2003) targeted 
seafronts in Costa Rica and Portugal. The studies do not find any evidence of the benefit 
function transfer performing better than other benefit transfer methods, as propagated in 
the literature. Barton (2002) also rejects the claim that transferability of benefit is directly 
related to the proximity of the two sites, while also encouraging the idea of finding 
different sites and attempting to control for these differences. Barton and Mourato (2003) 
have advised against the usage of benefit transfer for policy analysis since it could lead to 
very unhealthy results.   
Loomis, Bell, Cooney and Asmus (2009) adopted a choice experiment method to 
estimate WTP of parents located in San Luis Valley (Colorado) for safer quality water 
when faced with the risk of shock, brain damage or death of their children. Using non-
parents in the survey, they also incorporated the behaviour of altruism in the model. Their 
results indicate that the theoretical estimates are highly overvalued in comparison to the 
real values, indicating hypothetical bias.   
Using the distance functions initially developed by Fare, et al. (1993), Hernandez-
Sancho, Molinos-Senante, and Sala-Garrido (2009) have estimated the shadow prices for 
undesirable water pollutants which can be utilised to construct a CBA framework in order 
to prioritise the elimination of some specific undesirable pollutants.   
Cheng, Schuster-Wallace, Watt, Newbold, and Mente (2012) conducted an 
extensive study on 193 nations to quantify the effect of water quality on infant, child and 
maternal mortality. With particular emphasis on the attainment of the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) related to infant health, maternal health and environmental 
sustainability, the authors employed simple linear regression and logit model to find 
statistically significant decrease in mortality with improvement In water and sanitation in 
every case.   
Mishra (2014) attempted to value the recreational benefits from the Hussain Sagar 
Lake in Hyderabad (India) by using a blend of CVM (Stated Preference Approach) and 
Travel Cost Model (Revealed Preference Approach). The author estimated the demand 
curve for the improvement in the lake quality, followed by the shift in demand curve due 
to proposed increase in the admission fee. The estimates seem to be very beneficial from 
implementation viewpoint for increase in government revenue from the lake.   
For a meta-analysis and critical survey of the available techniques to determine the 
total use value of water resources, Birol, Karousakis, and Koundouri (2006) can be 
referred.  
924 
Allawala,  Barry, and  Kayani 
  
2.3.  Critical Analysis and Contribution to Literature 
Undoubtedly, there is no dearth of evidence regarding contamination of water 
bodies all over Pakistan, as evident from Table 1 (for evidence from before 2010, 
Azizullah, et al. (2010) provides an extensive meta-analysis). However, there has not 
been much work in the context of health effects due to contamination of these water 
resources. While most of the studies do report correlation between the degradation of 
water quality samples and the prevalence of water-borne diseases in the target area, 
correlation does not always imply causation. To contribute towards this gap in the 
literature, this study uses a revealed preference approach grounded in economic theory to 
substantiate the relationship between the rampant water pollution in the country and its 
effect on the health of the most sensitive fraction of the population: children. The study 
also takes into account the defensive behaviour of the household to assess if it leads to a 
reduction in the incidence of the illness. As discussed in later sections, the results of this 
study find significant application in many areas.   
 
Table 1 
Post-2009 Literature Regarding Drinking Water-Quality in Pakistan 
Authors  
Year  
Target Area  
Results  
Hayder, Arshad and 
Aziz 
 
  
2009  
Southern 
Lahore  
62.5 percent connections had T.C; 50 percent had F.C; 
possibly due to mixing of sewage.   
Memon, Soomro, 
Akhtar and Memon  
 
2010  
Thatta, Badin 
and Thar; 
Sindh  
Coliform and soluble salts in all water bodies; diarrhea in 60 
percent sample population.   
Ashraf, Maah, Yusoff 
and Mehmood  
 
2010  
Jamber, 
Punjab  
Parameters exceed NEQS guidelines for both irrigation and 
drinking purposes.   
Muhammad, Shah and 
Khan  
 
2011  
Kohistan; 
KPK  
Cd, Ni, Pb, Zn concentrations higher than prescribed limits.   
Qadir and Malik  
 
 
2011  
River 
Chenab  
Higher concentrations of heavy metals in fish rendering it 
unfit for human diet.   
Farid, Baloch and  
Ahmed  
 
2012  
Faisalabad  
Ground water unfit for human consumption particularly near 
sewage channels.   
Khan, Shehnaz, Jehan, 
Rehman, Shah and 
Din  
 
 
2012  
Charsadda, 
KPK  
Drinking water contaminated with heavy metals and 
coliform; 47-59 percent people reported diarrhea (most 
common illness).   
Kazi  
2014  
Karachi and 
Hyderabad  
Heavy metals, arsenic and ecoliforms found in all samples.  
 
3.  DATA 
The data source primarily used for this study is the 2012-13 Pakistan Demographic 
and Health Survey (PDHS). The National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS) 
undertook the responsibility of implementing the 2012-13 PDHS project, and the project 
 
Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water  
925 
 
was executed by the Pakistan Planning and Development Division (Islamabad). The 
Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (PBS) provided the sample design and household listings for 
the sampled areas across the country. The funding for the survey was provided by the 
United States Introduction Agency for International Development (USAID), while 
technical and logistical support was provided by ICF International through its measure 
DHS project.   
For the Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) 2012-13, the target 
sample was the entire population of the nation except for the population residing in Azad 
Jammu and Kashmir, FATA, and restricted military and protected areas. Taking into 
consideration the 1998 Population Census, the population of the country has been 
ramified into urban and rural areas of the four provinces and the GB area. Furthermore, 
all urban cities and towns have been categorised into mutually exclusive, small areas, 
known as enumeration blocks which have clear boundaries on the map and comprise of 
about 200 to 250 households on average. These were further categorised into low-, 
middle-, and high-income categories. However, owing to the absence of any such 
ramification in rural areas, lists of villages/mouzas/dehs developed through the 1998 
population census were used as the sample frame. Ultimately, the sample was comprised 
of 14,000 households which were deemed adequate for high precision results by the 
survey. To select individual households in the second round of the sampling, 28 
households were selected by applying a systematic sampling technique with a random 
start. This resulted in 14,000 households being selected (6,944 in urban areas and 7,056 
in rural areas) with a response rate of 96 percent [PDHS  (2012-13)].  
 
3.  MODEL AND ESTIMATION METHOD 
 
3.1.  Theoretical Framework  
Most of the formal models used for deriving the value of reduced morbidity use 
some variant of the health production function first developed by Grossman (1972). Since 
then, numerous models have been formulated to explore different aspects of the health 
production function. While Cropper (1981) explored the consequences of introducing 
pollution variables in the health production function, Harrington and Portney (1987) 
extended the framework to a model deriving individual choice in terms of willingness-to-
pay. The following model of defensive behaviour and illness is based on the treatment by 
Alberini, et al. (1996) which itself was inspired from the work of Harrington, Krupnick, 
and Spofford (1989). 
The individual derives utility from the consumption of a numeraire good   , 
normalised with a price of one, leisure   while illness   causes disutility; thus, 
            
with                  
Times pent ill   is modeled as a function of the exposure to contaminants   and 
averting or defensive behaviour to reduce the likelihood of illness which we express as the 
time    the household spends on defensive activities [Alberini, et al. (1996)]. Defensive 
activity reduces the impact of the exposure to the contaminant, thereby affecting the 
household’s well-being. Thus, the health production function can be speciﬁed as 
926 
Allawala,  Barry, and  Kayani 
  
                             
with 
            
The household’s budget constraint can then be speciﬁed as 
                       
where   is total non-labour income,   is the wage rate,   is total time,    is the price of 
defensive activity.  
The first-order conditions for optimising the Lagrangian: 
    (           )                           
with respect to  ,  , and    are easily shown to be: 
        
         
   
  
       
  
           
The optimal defensive behaviour derived from the first-order conditions: 
   
    
              
is therefore a function of the wage rate,  , of non-labor income, , of the cost of the 
defensive activity,    , and of the threat of contamination,  . On inserting the optimal   
  
into the dose-response function  , we obtain: 
         
    
The study will attempt to estimate the last two equations, dose-response function 
and the defensive behaviour function from the available data.  
 
3.2.  Econometric Specification of the Model   
The model specified in the last section therefore would estimate the health 
production function and the defensive behaviour function using household-level data to 
determine how individuals respond to a threat of contamination and illness.   
While controlling for other variables that affect health status, the estimation 
procedure involves the estimation of a relationship between illness and the contamination 
levels. However, while performing actual estimations of the health production function, 
we would need to be controlling for various other determinants of health stock, such as 
physical and socio-economic characteristics of age, gender, wage, and education level. 
Such a model captures the effect of behaviour on health while allowing for the joint 
determination of health and behaviour, and is therefore useful for analysing real-world 
situations. This is due to the fact that it treats health and behaviour as interlinked 
variables. For both equations the dependent variable will be modelled as a dichotomous 
observed variable, because of the nature of behaviour (e.g., households either treat or do 
not treat water) or lack of more accurate information (we have information regarding 
presence of diarrheal illness but not its duration).  
Suppose that individuals exhibit defensive behaviour if the value assumed by a 
random variable 𝑦1, is greater than zero. Let 𝑦1 be determined by individual/household 
 
Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water  
927 
 
characteristics (including the wage rate, non-labor income and the cost of defensive 
behaviour) and the risk factors, both represented by the vector of regressors 𝑥1:  
𝑦1 = 𝛽1𝑥1 + 𝜖  
Furthermore, suppose that diarrheal disease is present in a household when a 
second random variable 𝑦2 defined as:  
𝑦2 = 𝛽2𝑥2 + 𝜂𝑦1 + 𝜉  
takes on a value greater than zero. Here 𝑥2 is also a set of individual and household 
characteristics and sources of risk for diarrheal disease. The above two simultaneous 
equations contain two endogenous variables, 𝑦1 and 𝑦2, and hence can be estimated using 
instrumental variable regression techniques. Instead of converting the equations into the 
reduced-form and then estimating them, the procedure will use the household 
characteristics are instruments in the defensive behaviour function and then estimate the 
health production function. However, the endogeneity of the variables must also be 
assessed to assure the reliability of the results.  
The dependent variable for the health production function is diarrheal illness – it 
assumes a value of 1 if the household reports at least one case of diarrheal illness, 
otherwise 0. For the defensive behaviour equation, as the literature suggests [see Alberini 
(1996)] purification of water has been taken as the variable of interest– it takes a value of 
1 when the household reports that it employs measures to purify water prior to drinking 
the same, otherwise it takes a value of 0. In the survey, sources that are likely to provide 
water approprite for drinking are identified as improved sources. These include a piped 
source within the dwelling, yard, or plot; borehole; a protected well; a public 
tap/standpipe; rainwater; and spring water [WHO and UNICEF Joint Monitoring 
Program for Water Supply and Sanitation (2010)].  
The source of water is taken to be the primary source of water contamination in 
the household. It takes a value of 1 if it is an improved water source (piped into 
household, protected well, protected spring, bottled water and filtration plant); 
otherwise it takes a value of zero (unprotected well, unprotected spring, surface water, 
tanker truck). Other exogenous variables include household income (categorical 
variable with five states), education of the head (in years) and the time it takes to get to 
the water source (in hours).   
As evident from the economic framework, the defensive behaviour is an 
endogenous variable in the construction of the health-production function. As such, a 
Two-Stage Least Square (2SLS) procedure has been employed to estimate the effect of 
improved water sources and defensive behaviour on the presence of diarrheal diseases 
among households in Pakistan. The linear specification implies the fact that the estimates 
of the model can be interpreted directly as the marginal effects of a unit change in one 
variable while keeping everything else constant. Although both equations have binary 
dependent variables, Angrist and Pischke (2008) suggest utilising a linear model while 
taking into account the fact that LPM only gives an approximation of the marginal 
effects. Nevertheless, to confirm endogeneity of the defensive behaviour variable, 
endogeneity test statistics will also be reported. The variables for this study are listed in 
Table 2.  
928 
Allawala,  Barry, and  Kayani 
  
Table 2 
Description of Variables 
Diarrheal Disease (Response variable)  
1 if household reports at least one case of diarrhoea; 0 otherwise  
Source of Drinking Water (Contamination Source) 
1 if household uses improved water source; 0 otherwise  
Treatment of Drinking Water (Defensive Behaviour) 
1 if household uses any method to treat water prior to drinking; 0 otherwise  
Control variables 
Household Characteristics  
Income category of the household  
Time to get to water source  
 
Education of household head  
 
3.3.  Hypothesis  
(i) Treatment of water prior to drinking has no effect on the prevalence of 
diarrheal diseases among households in Pakistan. 
(ii) Household characteristics do not affect prevalence of diarrheal diseases 
among households in Pakistan.  
(iii) Treatment of water prior to drinking (defensive behaviour) is not an 
endogenous variable in the health-production function. 
 
4.  RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
In this section we report the descriptive statistics and regression results of this 
study, discuss the strengths and weaknesses of those results and recommend future 
research prospects in this area.   
 
4.1.  Descriptive Statistics  
Access to safe water and sanitation are basic determinants of better health. 
Lack of access to safe drinking water and sanitation facilities and poor hygiene are 
associated with skin diseases, acute respiratory infections (ARIs), and diarrheal 
diseases. Diarrheal diseases remain the leading causes of childhood deaths in 
Pakistan that are preventable with primary health care measures [NIPS and Macro 
International (2008)].   
In the 2012-13 PDHS, information on diarrhoea was gathered by asking mothers 
whether their child had experienced any episode of diarrhoea in the two weeks before the 
survey. If the child had had diarrhoea, the mother was asked about feeding practices 
during diarrhoea, types of treatment, and her knowledge and use of ORS.   
 
Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water  
929 
 
Table 3 
Descriptive Statistics 
Background Characteristics  
Diarrheal Incidence (%)  
Age in Months  
   <6  
  
25.8  
   6-11  
35.3  
   12-23  
32.9  
   24-35  
22.0  
   36-47  
16.3  
   48-59  
12.0  
Sex  
  Male  
  
22.7  
  Female  
22.3  
Source of Drinking Water5 Improved  
22.2  
  Not improved  
25.5  
  Other/missing  
35.5  
Toilet Facility6  
  Improved, not shared  
  
21.9  
Shared  
23.2  
Non-improved   
23.2  
Mother’s Education  
   No education  
  
22.9  
   Primary  
25.0  
   Middle  
22.6  
   Secondary  
21.1  
   Higher  
16.4  
Wealth quintile  
   Lowest  
  
22.8  
   Second  
24.3  
   Middle  
23.7  
   Fourth  
23.6  
   Highest  
17.1  
   Total  
22.5  
 
According to the descriptive statistics in Table 2, 23 percent of children under age 
5 suffered from diarrhoea in the two weeks preceding the survey. The prevalence of 
diarrhoea was reported to be 15 percent in 1990-91 and 22 percent in 2006-07. Although 
diarrhoea prevalence varies seasonally, the three PDHS surveys were conducted in more 
or less the same period, and thus the diarrhoea episodes reported in the three surveys 
depict a realistic trend. For children age 6-11 months (35 percent), the prevalence of 
diarrhea is highest owing to the fact that this is the time during which solid foods are first 
introduced into the child’s daily diet. During this period, children are most exposed to 
diseases since their immune system is still developing. Prevalence of diarrhoea does not 
show variations by sex of the child, type of toilet facility, or residence. Diarrheal 
 
5Improved drinking water sources include a piped source within the dwelling, yard, or plot; a public 
tap/standpipe; borehole; a protected well; spring water; and rainwater. 
6A household is classified as having an improved toilet if it is used only by household members (is not 
shared with another household) and if it separates waste from human contact.  
930 
Allawala,  Barry, and  Kayani 
  
prevalence is higher among households using a non-improved source of drinking water 
than among households using an improved source. There are no substantial variations by 
mother’s education and wealth quintile, except that children of mothers who have a 
higher education (16 percent) and children of mothers in the highest wealth quintile (17 
percent) are less likely to suffer from diarrhoea.  
 
4.2.  Regression Results  
Using instrumental variable techniques, the defensive behaviour function has been 
estimated in the first step, while the second step estimates the health production function 
(hence the name Two-Stage Least Squares). The Table 4 gives the estimates of the 2SLS 
model, separately reporting both the defensive behaviour function and the dose-response 
function.  
 
Table 4 
Instrumental Variable Regression Results 
Variables 
Coefficients 
A. Stage 1: Treatment of water 
 
Constant  
0.013* 
(0.007) 
Improved water source7 
0.045*** 
(0.006) 
Income category I: Richest8  
0.176*** 
(0.009) 
Income category II: Richer  
0.029*** 
(0.009) 
Income category III: Middle  
-0.008 
(0.008) 
Income category IV: Poorer  
-0.022* 
(0.008) 
Household head education  
0.003*** 
(0.0005) 
Time required to get to water source  
0.029*** 
(0.007) 
Observations 
13,409 
F (7, 13401) 
189.79 
B. Stage 2: Presence of Diarrheal disease 
 
Constant  
0.192*** 
(0.006) 
Improved water source9 
-0.016** 
(0.007) 
Treated water10  
-0.315*** 
(0.047) 
Household head education  
0.00018 
(0.0007) 
Time required to get to water source  
0.0007 
(0.009) 
Observations 
13,409 
Wald Chi2 
108.35 
Notes: *, ** and *** denote significance at 10 percent, 5 percent and 1 percent. Standard errors in parenthesis.  
 
7 Reference category: Unimproved water source 
8 Reference category: Poorest. 
9 Reference category: Unimproved water source. 
10 Reference category: Untreated water. 
 
Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water  
931 
 
In the first stage, the defensive behaviour (treatment of water by the household) has 
been regressed on different structural and behavioural characteristics. The first thing that 
needs our notice is that the signs of the income categories change when we move up the 
income ladder. The households in the lowest income category are negatively related to the 
defensive behaviour; however, for higher categories, such households are more likely to 
respond to risk of contamination. Furthermore, as we move up from the middle category to 
the richest, the coefficient also increases in size, representing the fact that the more endowed 
the household is, the more it will reflect defensive behaviour. Except for the middle income 
category, the rest of the categories ae significant as well. Therefore, while a household which 
is relatively poorer is about 2.2 percent less likely to treat water prior to drinking, the richest 
household are about 17.6 percent more likely to express defensive behaviour.  
An improved source of water is also positively and significantly related to the 
defensive behaviour which is also a proxy for the wealth of the household; a wealthier 
household is more likely to indulge in defensive behaviour, conforming to the economic 
theory. Hence, households using an improved water source are 4.5 percent more likely to 
also treat it prior to drinking, and is a significant determinant of the decision to undertake 
defensive activity. The education of the household head is also significantly related to 
defensive behaviour implying that the more educated the head is, the more that household 
will be aware regarding the benefits of treating its water before drinking. Using education 
of the mother instead of household head’s education (not reported) results in a similar 
coefficient and significance. 
Finally, the time taken to get to the water source is also positively and significantly 
related to the defensive behaviour which could be representative of the fact that 
households perceive such sources to be contaminated with pollutants and hence are 3 
percent more likely to treat it prior to drinking.   
In the next step, the household health production function has been estimated 
where the treatment of water is being treated as an endogenous variable. As indicated by 
economic theory and the comprehensive literature review, the utilisation of an improved 
water source of drinking water and the treatment of water before drinking (expression of 
defensive behaviour) lead to a decrease in the presence of diarrheal diseases in the house. 
In fact, a household which treats water prior to drinking is 31.5 percent less likely to 
report any case of diarrheal disease as opposed to those who do not undertake any such 
activity. Similarly, if the household utilises an improved water source, it is 1.6 percent 
less likely to report presence of diarrheal diseases.  
Finally, to check whether the use of an endogenous variable in the household 
production function was justified, endogeneity tests results have also been reported. Both, 
the Durbin test as well as the Wu-Hausman test, result in the rejection of the null 
hypothesis of the variable being exogenous and hence our choice of endogenous variable 
is correct, reinforcing the reliability of the 2SLS model.  
The household exhibiting defensive behaviour, i.e. treating water prior to drinking, 
are 31.5 percent less likely to report any cases of diarrheal diseases in the household as 
opposed to those not employing any such method. The results are comparable to the 
studies previously done in Jakarta [Alberini (1996)] and India [Dasgupta (2004)]. 
However, unlike the mentioned studies, the estimation takes into account the endogenous 
nature of the defensive behaviour as dictated by the economic theory. The confirmation 
of the endogenous nature of the variable reinforces the reliability of the results while also 
conforming to the theoretical framework.  
932 
Allawala,  Barry, and  Kayani 
  
4.3.  Limitations of the Study  
Although this study is the first to be employed in Pakistan to the best of our 
knowledge, it also exhibits many limitations that the future researchers can improve upon. The 
first such shortcoming is that the study utilises indirect exposure to contaminants (unimproved 
water source) instead of the direct contamination source, which drastically reduces the link 
between the diarrheal disease and the contaminant. However, this can be remedied by 
epidemiological studies at the site of the data collection. This will result in a better 
classification of the water sources as opposed to the one already in use. Similarly, the lack of 
information on the exact wage of the household, price of diarrheal treatment, price of water 
treatment and the days spent sick result in deviation from the pure form of the household 
health-production function. One step in this direction is the extension of DHS to inquire 
regarding the wages of the households and the exact cost of treatment to recover from 
diarrheal diseases. These values can be combined with the results of the study to provide an 
estimate of the wages lost and the cost of defensive behaviour by the household, which will 
give us a lower bound of the cost of diarrheal illness in the household. This cost can be used 
by policy-makers to value programs being implemented to tackle diarrheal illnesses across 
Pakistan. Moreover, the availability of time-series data along with cross-sectional will allow 
us to model the dynamics of the disease and the household behaviour in real time.  
 
Table 5 
Diagnostic Tests 
Endogeneity Tests  
Coefficient  
p-value  
Durbin score  
50.2549 
0.000 
Wu-Hausman  
50.4214 
0.000 
 
5.  CONCLUSION 
This study finds that household exhibiting defensive behaviour, i.e. treating water 
prior to drinking, are 31.5 percent less likely to report any cases of diarrheal diseases in the 
household as opposed to those not employing any such method. As discussed before, 
diarrheal illness has proven to be a significant contributor to the burden of disease among 
Pakistani population and is a primary reason for infant mortality in the country. Not only 
does it pose a threat to the health of the children, it also imposes considerable monetary and 
cognitive burden. The result of the study calls for an immediate state level policy 
intervention to spread awareness among the public regarding the benefits of water treatment 
prior to drinking. Moreover, it also serves as a reminder of the responsibility of the state to 
ensure better health of its citizens by making sure that the basic resources, especially as 
necessary as drinking water, is safe to consume and implement measures to mitigate the 
health hazards if it is not the case. Conclusively, further exploration regarding the cost of 
illness due to unsafe drinking water in the country should allow the government to construct 
and implement inherently efficient policies and schemes in the future. 
 
REFERENCES 
Angrist, J. D. and J. S. Pischke (2008) Mostly Harmless Econometrics: An Empiricist's 
Companion. Princeton University Press. 
 
Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water  
933 
 
Ashraf, M. A., M. J. Maah, I. Yusoff, and K. Mehmood (2010) Effects of Polluted Water 
Irrigation on Environment and Health of People in Jamber, District Kasur, 
Pakistan. International Journal of Basic and Applied Sciences  10:3, 37–57. 
Azizullah, A., M. N. K. Khattak, P. Richter, and D. P. Häder (2011) Water Pollution in 
Pakistan 
and 
Its 
Impact 
on 
Public 
Health—A 
Review. Environment 
International 37:2, 479–497. 
Barton, D. N. (2002) The Transferability of Benefit Transfer: Contingent Valuation of 
Water Quality Improvements in Costa Rica. Ecological Economics 42:1, 147–164.  
Barton, D. N. and S. Mourato (2003) Transferring the Benefits of Avoided Health Effects 
from Water Pollution between Portugal and Costa Rica. Environment and 
Development Economics 8:02, 351–371. 
Birol, E., K. Karousakis, and P. Koundouri (2006) Using Economic Valuation 
Techniques to Inform Water Resources Management: A Survey and Critical Appraisal 
of Available Techniques and An Application. Science of the Total Environment 365:1, 
105–122. 
Cheng, J. J., C. J. Schuster-Wallace, S. Watt, B. K. Newbold, and A. Mente (2012) An 
Ecological Quantification of the Relationships between Water, Sanitation and Infant, 
Child, And Maternal Mortality. Environmental Health 11:1. 
Cropper, M. L. (1981) Measuring the Benefits from Reduced Morbidity. The American 
Economic Review 71:2, 235–240. 
Dasgupta, P. (2004)  Valuing Health Damages from Water Pollution in Urban Delhi, 
India: A Health Production Function Approach. Environment and Development 
Economics 9:1, 83–106.  
De Lange, W. J. (2012) Monetary Valuation of Salinity Impacts and Microbial Pollution 
in the Olifants Water Management Area, South Africa. Water SA 38:2, 241–248.  
DHS, M. (2013) Demographic and Health Surveys. Calverton: MEASURE DHS. 
Dwight, R. H., L. M. Fernandez, D. B. Baker, J. C. Semenza, and B. H. Olson (2005) 
Estimating the Economic Burden from Illnesses Associated with Recreational Coastal 
Water Pollution—A Case Study in Orange County, California. Journal of 
Environmental Management 76:2, 95–103. 
Färe, R., S. Grosskopf, C. K. Lovell, and S. Yaisawarng (1993) Derivation of Shadow 
Prices for Undesirable Outputs: A Distance Function Approach. The Review of 
Economics and Statistics 374–380. 
Farid, S., M. K. Baloch, and S. A. Ahmad (2012) Water Pollution: Major Issue in Urban 
Areas. International Journal of Water Resources and Environmental Engineering 4:3, 
55–65. 
Greenstone, M. (2014) Environmental Regulations, Air and Water Pollution, and Infant 
Mortality in India. The American Economic Review 104:10,  3038–3072.  
Grossman, M. (1972) On the Concept of Health Capital and the Demand for 
Health. Journal of Political Economy  80:2, 223–255. 
Harrington, W. and P. R. Portney (1987) Valuing the Benefits of Health and Safety 
Regulation. Journal of urban Economics 22:1, 101–112. 
Harrington, W., A. J. Krupnick, and W. O. Spofford (1989) The Economic Losses of a 
Waterborne Disease Outbreak. Journal of Urban Economics 25:1, 116–137. 
Haydar, S., M. Arshad, and J. A. Aziz (2016) Evaluation of Drinking Water Quality in 
Urban Areas of Pakistan: A Case Study of Southern Lahore. Pakistan Journal of 
Engineering and Applied Sciences. 
934 
Allawala,  Barry, and  Kayani 
  
Hernández-Sancho, F. M.-S.-G. (2010) Economic Valuation of Environmental Benefits 
from Wastewater Treatment Processes: An Empirical Approach for Spain. Science of 
the Total Environment 408:4, 953–957.  
Hernández-Sancho, F., M. Molinos-Senante, and R. Sala-Garrido (2010) Economic 
Valuation of Environmental Benefits from Wastewater Treatment Processes: An 
Empirical Approach for Spain. Science of the Total Environment 408:4, 953–957. 
Khan, S., M. Shahnaz, N. Jehan, S. Rehman, M. T. Shah, and I. Din (2013) Drinking 
Water Quality and Human Health Risk in Charsadda District, Pakistan. Journal of 
Cleaner Production 60, 93–101. 
Krupnick, A., A. Alberini, G. McGranahan, and G. S. Eskeland (1996) Determinants of 
Diarrhoel Disease in Jakarta. World Bank Policy Research Papers (1568), 1–3. 
Loomis, J., P. Bell, H. Cooney, and C. Asmus (2009) A Comparison of Actual and 
Hypothetical Willingness to Pay of Parents and Non-Parents for Protecting Infant 
Health: The Case of Nitrates in Drinking Water. Journal of Agricultural and Applied 
Economics 41:3, 697–712. 
Mahieu, P. A. (2012) Determinants of Willingness-To-Pay for Water Pollution 
Abatement: A Point and Interval Data Payment Card Application. Journal of 
Environmental Management 108, 49–53.  
Mahmood, A. and M. Sultan (2006) National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS) (Pakistan), 
and Macro International Inc. Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 7, 123–45. 
Memon, M. S. (2011) Drinking Water Quality Assessment in Southern Sindh (Pakistan). 
Environmental Monitoring and Assessment 177:1, 39–50.  
Mishra, P. P. (2014) Potential Benefits and Earnings from Improving the Hussain Sagar 
Lake in Hyderabad: A Combined Revealed and Stated Preference Approach .  
Muhammad, S., M. T. Shah, and S. Khan (2011)  Health Risk Assessment of Heavy 
Metals and Their Source Apportionment in Drinking Water of Kohistan Region, 
Northern Pakistan. Microchemical Journal  98:2, 334–343. 
National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS) and Macro International (2009) Pakistan 
Demographic and Health Survey 2006-07. Claverton, Maryland, USA. 
Qadir, A., and R. N. Malik (2011) Heavy Metals in Eight Edible Fish Species from Two 
Polluted Tributaries (Aik and Palkhu) of the River Chenab, Pakistan. Biological Trace 
Element Research 143:3, 1524–1540. 
Qureshi, A. S. (2014) Reducing Carbon Emissions through Improved Irrigation Management: 
A Case Study from Pakistan. Journal of Irrigation and Drain 63,  132–138. 
Ramajo-Hernández, J., and S. del Saz-Salazar (2012) Estimating the Non-Market 
Benefits of Water Quality Improvement for a Case Study in Spain: A Contingent 
Valuation Approach. Environmental Science and Policy  22, 47–59. 
Stumborg, B. E., K. A. Baerenklau, and R. C. Bishop (2001) Nonpoint Source Pollution 
and Present Values: A Contingent Valuation Study of Lake Mendota. Review of 
Agricultural Economics 120–132. 
Waseem, A., J. Arshad, F. Iqbal, A. Sajjad, Z. Mehmood and G. Murtaza (2014) Pollution 
Status of Pakistan: A Retrospective Review on Heavy Metal Contamination of Water, 
Soil, and Vegetables. BioMed Research International. Hindawi Publishing Corporation. 
WHO (2002) The World Health Report 2002: Reducing Risks, Promoting Healthy Life. 
Geneva: World Health Organisation. 
WHO, U. N. I. C. E. F. (2010) Progress on Sanitation and Drinking-water, 2010 Update. 
World Health Organisation. 
