8. Expand programmes to treat very high acute malnutrition rates through expanded Communitybased Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM). 9. Prevent stunting by applying the life cycle approach including education of adolescent girls, programmes for pregnant and lactating women such as the 1000 Days Approach, in order to improve breastfeeding practices and child feeding up to 2 years of age. 10. Implement fortification of essential food items such as wheat flour, oil, etc. to prevent micronutrient deficiencies. Initiate specific breeding programmes for the development of fortified cultivars rich in essential micronutrients. 11. Given poor water purification and sanitation practices, programmes to educate people in these aspects are important to improve overall hygiene conditions. 12. Improvements in health facilities and rehabilitation of community infrastructure should be a priority to upgrade the overall living environment, access to and quality of health care services. 13. Education attainment in Merged Areas remains generally very low, especially among women heads of households. Similarly, the situation is also very grim for the female members in the household as compared to male members, and for school-aged girls as compared to schoolaged boys. Thus, in light of poor education indicators, it is critical to review relevant areas of Education Sector Plan (ESP) of Elementary & Secondary (E&S) Education Department, intensify programmes to enhance education and improve awareness of its value and linkage to social stability and food security, especially for women and girls e.g. School Meal Programme (SMP) and cash for education. 14. Nutrition Literacy and general education should be intensified to raise the current low awareness of the importance of exclusive breastfeeding and complementary feeding of infants and young children, while reducing common, inappropriate practices. Stability 1. It is recommended to strengthen early warning systems, preparedness and prompt response to natural hazards (shocks) such as animal and plant diseases, floods, droughts, and insect/pest attacks, etc. 2. Ensure that contingency plans are well developed at the federal, provincial and District levels including the stocking of grain reserves and feed resources to timely respond to emergency needs 3. The food security situation of the households remains fragile, mainly driven by limited food access as a result of limited livelihood opportunities, and unstable and low income. Therefore, conditional food assistance, through either food or cash for asset creation activities could be an important means to enhance food security, restore or create stable assets and support the resilience building for the household