passive recipients of knowledge. People learn faster when they actively process information, solve problems, or practice skills. 12. Accountability: Ensure that learners understand and know how to put what they have learned into practice. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 7 13. Motivation: People learn faster and more thoroughly when they want to learn. The trainer’s challenge is to create conditions in which people want to learn. • Learning is natural, as basic a function of human beings as eating or sleeping. • Some people are more eager to learn than others, and even within an individual, there are different levels of motivation. • The principles outlined here will help the learner become motivated. 14. Clarity • Messages should be clear. • Words and sentence structures should be familiar. • Trainers should explain technical words and make sure the learners understand the terms. • Messages should be VISUAL. 15. Feedback: Feedback informs the learner about her/his strengths or weaknesses. Adapted from J. Vella. 1994. Learning to Listen, Learning to Teach. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 8 ANNEX 2. TRAINING METHODS AND HOW TO USE THEM Training Method How to Use Group discussion: A group of no more than seven participants discuss and summarise a given subject or theme. The group selects a chairperson, a recorder and/or someone to report to plenary. Outline the discussion’s purpose and write questions and tasks clearly to provide focus and structure. Allow enough time for all groups to finish the task and give feedback. Announce remaining time at regular intervals. Ensure that participants share or rotate roles. Buzz group: Two to three participants discuss their immediate reactions to information presented and share examples and experiences. Clearly state the topic or question to be discussed along with the objectives. Brainstorm: A spontaneous process through which group members’ ideas and opinions on a subject are voiced and written for selection, discussion, and agreement. All opinions and ideas are valid. State clearly the brainstorming rule that there is no wrong or bad idea. Ask for a volunteer to record the ideas. Plenary: The entire group comes together to share ideas. Appoint a timekeeper. Pose a few questions for group discussion. Role-play: Participants act out a specific situation based on the details about the “person” they are asked to play. Structure the role-play well, keeping it brief and