fetching are the primary responsibility of women and girls in the households. Similar are the findings of the survey that 82 percent households reported (68 percent and 14 percent respectively) women/girls are responsible for fetching water, while 31 percent of households travel for up to 30 minutes to fetch water from the sources for their daily use. Most of women’s work go unaccounted, since they are not paid directly for the services, they render to manage family agriculture and livestock. In terms of health and educational opportunities, that are fundamental for development the challenges are huge. Low enrolment, lack of female teachers and girls’ schools, social and cultural norms hindering girls’ access to education are evident. A total number of 684,577 are out of schools in merged Districts of which around 60 percent are girls. The rate is much higher in TSD Kohat with 73 percent, Mohmand and Khyber Districts with 71 and 70 percent respectively, followed by Kurram and North Waziristan Districts at 65 percent each. However, TSD Lakki Marat (71 percent), TSD Tank (70 percent) and TSD D. I Khan (54 percent) have higher rate of boys out of schools. The Merged Area is a complex region, where every District is different from the others geographically, culturally, economically, and demographically. Considering the challenges involved in access to health facilities, culturally restricted environment, heavy labour work, poor hygiene and sanitation practices and limited availability of women health services providers are impacting on the women and children’s health conditions and access to health services. Respondents identified long distances (36 percent) that it takes up to 30 minutes for around 59 percent of population to reach health facilities; lack of transportation (20 percent); high cost of services (15 percent), poor road conditions (11 percent) as main impediments to access to health services. It should also be noted that CFSLA found overall 3.5 percent of the individuals in the Merged Areas reported in some form of physical or mental disability which also require special attention. There are few economic opportunities in this area. Many men leave in search of work, which makes women’s lives even more difficult, when they have to depend on male in-laws or extended family as they are not allowed to live on their own. Nevertheless, the communities that were displaced for more than a year in a different province benefitted from seeing a completely different lifestyle in which