fair, and efficient, given available resources and circumstances. There should be sufficient numbers of staff that are fairly distributed, competent, responsive, and productive. 3. Financing should be sufficient to ensure that health services are accessible and that people can use or pay for them without risk of financial catastrophe or impoverishment. 4. Information systems should ensure the production, analysis, dissemination, and use of reliable and timely information on health system performance, health determinants, and health status. 5. Medical products, vaccines, and technologies should be accessible to target communities; should be safe, efficacious, and cost-effective; and should be used properly and in a costeffective way 6. Service delivery should be effective and safe and should provide quality health interventions to those who need them, when and where needed, with minimum waste of resources. BUZZ GROUP: KEY ELEMENTS OF CMAM ALIGNED WITH THE HSS BUILDING BLOCKS. Refer participants to Handout 7.1 Key Elements of CMAM Framework Aligned with the HSS Building Blocks. Ask them to look over the list with a partner and to quickly identify which key elements stand out as particularly relevant for their districts. Ask a few pairs to comment. Discuss briefly. READING AND GROUP DISCUSSION: USING THE KEY ELEMENTS OF CMAM ALIGNED WITH THE HSS BUILDING BLOCKS. Refer participants to the key elements of CMAM. Discuss the framework’s many uses, such as capacity assessment, design, planning, evaluation, and review of integration. Explain that this module looks at the planning process through this framework wherever possible. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: OVERVIEW OF CMAM PLANNING PROCESS. Explain the key steps this module addresses in the CMAM planning process and write on a flip chart: 1. Situation analysis (to determine the needs), which consists of: a. Assessing the nutrition situation b. Mapping health and nutrition systems c. Assessing the capacity for CMAM at a district or health facility level d. Analysing strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 123 2. Logical framework 3. Action plan (implementation plan) 4. Planning for special cases BRAINSTORM: IDENTIFYING WHOM TO INVOLVE IN CMAM PLANNING. Remind participants of the work they did in Module 3: Community Outreach to think through whom they need to involve in planning. Given the main areas of activity identified above, ask participants who they think should be involved. Possible answers could include: • The team coordinating and supervising the intervention • District health officials