ROLE-PLAY. Confirm that the players have read the role-play cards (copy below) distributed in advance (see Advance Preparation). Explain that the role-play should unfold as a series of scenes between the mother and the other players. Spend five minutes with all the players to answer questions they may have and suggest ways to make their performance more realistic. The audience (those not acting out the role-play) should not be present when you explain the roles to the players. They may, however, be asked to participate in the final scene, where they may collectively act as a crowd of curious onlookers and care-seekers at the outpatient care site. After the role-play, help the participants to list the obstacles and analyse the scenario: • Which of these barriers are likely to be an issue in their own community? • What other factors hinder participation? • What measures would help eliminate these barriers? Community Mother: You are a mother of five children, living in a community that is a two-hour walk from the nearest government health post. Your 2-year-old daughter has been sick since her younger sister’s birth six months ago. You have tried many local remedies but nothing seems to make her better. She is now very thin and has almost no energy. You are very worried. You have heard that there are people going house to house to measure children’s arms, but you are not sure why. You are sceptical of these volunteers because some of the same people were appointed as “health messengers” last year and have a reputation for harassing people about building latrines. There are even rumours that some families in a nearby community were fined for not building latrines, and your husband (who is out) forbade you from allowing the messengers into the family compound. When a messenger arrives and asks to see your children, you have mixed feelings: You want to obey your husband, but you do not wish to anger the community chairman by refusing his emissaries. When the messenger assures you that s/he is not here to look at your latrine, you reluctantly agree to admit him/her. At first, you are not planning to show him/her your sick child. Nutrition Volunteer (male or female): You are trained to perform MUAC measurements on children by going house to house. Your work area covers four communities, including your own. You have limited formal schooling, but you