advance of actual CMAM start-up. Community outreach is not a new concept within the health sector. It is important to emphasise that all efforts should be made to assess the existing health outreach systems and actors and that community outreach for CMAM should build upon and further strengthen these existing systems. The suggested activities and methods explain what community outreach is, address what the barriers are to accessing CMAM-type services, and what preparations are needed to effectively reach communities with malnourished children. The module reviews the elements in and components of mobilising community outreach with the goal of maximising CMAM services, empowering communities, minimising the number of defaulters, and ultimately reducing deaths due to acute malnutrition. The module provides participants with information, tools, and skills to plan their own CMAM community outreach activities and an opportunity to practice these skills in the field. During the field visit, participants will go through all the steps needed to develop a community outreach strategy and an action plan. To strengthen infant and young child feeding (IYCF) practices in target communities and households, this training module should be complemented with the training course on Integration of IYCF support into CMAM, available at https://www.ennonline.net/integrationiycfintocmam. This two-day training helps to build the knowledge and skills of health care providers and community health workers involved with CMAM service delivery in the following areas: • Identifying gaps between actual and recommended IYCF practices in the CMAM communities • Discussing the recommended IYCF practices with mothers and caregivers • Supporting mothers and caregivers to optimally feed their infants and young children less than 2 years of age Learning Objectives Duration Handouts and Exercises 1. Explain the Importance of Community Outreach to CMAM Outcomes 30 minutes Handout 3.1 Principles of Community Outreach in the Context of CMAM Exercise 3.1 Barriers to Access Role-Play Exercise 3.2 Overcoming Obstacles to Community Participation in CMAM 1. Identify Key Elements of a Community Assessment 45 minutes Handout 3.2 Community Assessments Handout 3.3 Community Assessment Steps and Methods 2. Identify Key Steps in Developing a CMAM Outreach Strategy 45 minutes Handout 3.4 Community Outreach: From Assessment to Strategy Handout 3.5 Community Outreach Strategy Handout 3.6 Example: Selection of Candidates for Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 42 House-to-House Case-Finding Exercise 3.3 Comparison of Case-Finding Models Exercise 3.4 Worksheet: Selection of Candidates for Community Outreach 3. Discuss Considerations for Developing and