beneficiaries 5mg Single dose on day 1 * VITAMIN A: Do not give, if the child has already received Vitamin A in the last one month. ** ALBENDAZOLE: can be given again after 3 months if signs of re-infection appear. ***FOLIC ACID: Not to be given routinely. Where there is anaemia give folic acid on day 1. If child is taking sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine then give once malaria treatment complete. lxxxviii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Annex 19: Treatment of Complications in the Severely Malnourished Child A severely malnourished child without appetite and/or with medical complications must be referred to inpatient care. DEHYDRATION Misdiagnosis and incorrect treatment for dehydration is the commonest cause of death in malnourished children. Many of the signs that are normally used to assess dehydration are unreliable in a child with acute malnutrition, making it difficult or impossible to detect dehydration reliably or determine its severity. Severely acutely malnourished children are deficient in potassium and have abnormally high levels of sodium, therefore standard Oral Rehydration Solution (ORS) must not be used. Instead a Rehydration Solution for Malnutrition (ReSoMal) is used. CAUTION: IV infusions should be rarely used as children can quickly suffer from fluid overload and can ReSoMal should never be given freely. Breastfeeding should be continued wherever possible during re-hydration therapy. Diagnosis of dehydration in the marasmic child • Do not use the skin pinch test to diagnose dehydration – in marasmus skin normally lies in folds and is inelastic. • Do not assume that malnourished children with sunken eyes have dehydration – in marasmus eyes are normally sunken without any dehydration. The main diagnosis of dehydration comes from the HISTORY rather than the examination There needs to be: • A definite history of significant fluid loss –usually diarrhoea which is clearly like water and frequent with sudden onset within the past few hours or days. • A history of a recent change in the child’s appearance. If the eyes are sunken, the mother/caretaker must say that the eyes have become sunken since the diarrhoea began • The child must not have oedema. Diagnosis of shock with dehydration in the marasmic child When there is definite dehydration based on the history and the examination and: • A weak or absent radial pulse. • Cold hands or feet. Then the child is going into shock. When,