Months of Age. Available at: http://www.who.int/nutrition/publications/moderate_malnutrition/9789241504423/en/. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 109 Module 6 Learning Objective 1: Describe Some Types of Programmes to Manage MAM and How This Component Fits Within CMAM TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 6.1 Management of Moderate Acute Malnutrition (MAM) in Emergencies and Handout 6.2 Principles of Supplementary Feeding for the Management of MAM. WORKING GROUPS: THE ROLE OF PROGRAMMES TO MANAGE MAM IN CMAM. Form working groups of five participants. Draw Figure 1 on a flip chart. Ask participants to answer the following questions in groups: • What is management of MAM in the context of CMAM? • Why are services or programmes to manage MAM necessary? • Why are services or programmes to manage MAM the largest CMAM component? Ask groups to share in plenary. Discuss and fill in gaps. Figure 1. Core Components of CMAM Outpatient care for management of SAM WITHOUT medical complications Community Outreach Inpatient care for management of SAM WITH medical complications Management of MAM Other nutrition and health interventions, food security, social protection and WASH, to prevent undernutrition Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 110 PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: MANAGEMENT OF MAM–PURPOSE AND TYPES OF SUPPLEMENTARY FEEDING. Explain to participants that supplementary feeding, as implemented in the emergency context, will be the primary focus of discussion for the management of MAM in CMAM. Ask if anyone can define what supplementary feeding is and whether anyone has experience working with working in supplementary feeding. Fill in the gaps with the definition for supplementary feeding in Handout 6.1 Management of Moderate Acute Malnutrition (MAM) in Emergencies. Explain the difference between blanket supplementary feeding and targeted supplementary feeding, stressing that the supplementary feeding discussed in this module as part of CMAM are targeted supplementary feeding. Refer participants to Handout 6.1 and to Handout 6.2 Principles of Supplementary Feeding for the Management of MAM for reference in the future. Continue covering the main points in Handout 6.1, Sections B and C to explain supplementary feeding as an emergency intervention in the context of CMAM, objectives of an SFP, and when to start and close an SFP. Emphasize the following key points: • Supplementary feeding might be part of integrated CMAM services. It may be operated by the same agency or by a different one. • Effective monitoring and close coordination among supplementary feeding, outpatient