Crisis.” Humanitarian Practice Network Paper 48, Overseas Development Institute (ODI). Available at: www.validinternational.org. 8. Collins, S. et al. 2006. “Management of Severe Acute Malnutrition in Children.” Lancet. 368:1992– 2000. Available at: www.validinternational.org. 9. Collins, S. and Yates, R. 2003. “The Need to Update the Classification of Acute Malnutrition.” Lancet. 362:249. 10. Diop, E. et al. 2003. “Comparison of the Efficacy of a Solid Ready to Use Food and Liquid Milk Based Diet for the Rehabilitation of Severely Malnourished Children: A Randomized Trial. American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. 78:302–7. 11. Gatchell, V.; Forsythe, V.; and Rees Thomas, P. The Sustainability of Community-Based Therapeutic Care (CTC) in Non-Acute Emergency Contexts. WHO Technical Background Paper. Available at: http://www.who.int/nutrition/topics/backgroundpapers_The_sustainability.pdf. 12. Gross, R. and Webb, P. 2006. “Wasted Time for Wasted Children: Severe Child Undernutrition Must Be Resolved in Non-Emergency Settings.” Lancet. 367:1209–1211. Available at: www.thelancet.com. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 16 Module 1 Introduce Participants, Training Course, Modules, and Course Objectives TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 1.1 Abbreviations and Acronyms and Handout 1.2 Terminology for CMAM. ICEBREAKER: PRESENTATION OF NEIGHBOUR. Ask participants to introduce themselves and say a little about why they are attending the training, what their interest is in attending the course, and how they plan to use the skills they will acquire. ALTERNATIVE ICEBREAKER: Ask participants to pair up and interview each other about their experience with programmes managing acute malnutrition. Have them ask each other whether they are involved in services or programmes to address severe acute malnutrition (SAM) or moderate acute malnutrition (MAM), and whether the service/programme is community-based or facility-based, etc. Then, have participants introduce their partners and share this information. Discuss similarities and varieties of experiences. POWERPOINT: PRESENTATION OF COURSE PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES (Show slide 1). Ask participants to write three things they expect to gain from the training on cards or sticky notes, one expectation per card. Collect the expectations and group similar ones together. Post the expectations in the training room and discuss them. PRESENT THE COURSE PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES (SLIDES 1–2). Compare the learning objectives to participants’ expectations, and explain which expectations are likely and unlikely to be met during the training. Leave the expectations posted during training and review them at the end of each day. Tell participants that a flip chart will be kept free to post ideas, questions, and suggestions that arise throughout the course