card or health card (or in the registration book if one is used) and is used to track the infant or child while she/he is enrolled in CMAM. GROUP DISCUSSION: REGISTRATION NUMBERS. Draw the numbering system in Handout 8.2 Registration Numbering System Proposed for CMAM, Table 1 on a flip chart. Explain that a standard numbering system for CMAM (Example 1) has three parts: the health facility’s name or code, the infant or child’s individual number and a code representing the service where the infant or child first received treatment. Compare this with the HMIS numbering system for Malawi (Example 2). Ask participants if their country uses an HMIS numbering system or another numbering system for other interventions. Discuss how these might differ from the standard numbering system for CMAM. Discuss the bullet points on Handout 8.2 and answer any questions. Emphasise that numbering systems can vary per country, therefore consultation with the national guideline is essential. Also note that when establishing CMAM, its numbering system should be compatible with the registration numbering system already in place. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: CLASSIFYING CHILDREN INTO ENTRY AND EXIT CATEGORIES. Explain to participants that children in CMAM are tracked among services and are not double-counted. Refer participants to Handout 8.3 Monitoring and Reporting on CMAM, Part A for more Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 140 information. This information and the remainder of Handout 8.3 will be covered further in Learning Objective 3: Complete Site Tally Sheets and Site and District Reports; Interpret the Findings.  Classifying Entries: At entry, the infant or child is classified as a new admission age under 6 months, 6 to 59 months (optional: admission criteria recorded), as a new “other” admission (children ≥ 5 y, adolescents, adults) or as an old case (when referred from inpatient or outpatient care or when returning after defaulting). A relapse is classified as a new admission, which will be indicated on the outpatient care treatment card. Ask participants what tools they have encountered in their training that can help determine which category each child falls into and how to track him/her (e.g., CMAM admission criteria, CMAM entry categories, outpatient care treatment cards). Tell participants that they will shortly learn about other tools to help them with classification and tracking: filing treatment cards in binders and completing site tally sheets and site reporting sheets.  Classifying Exits: On