sites or training grounds in districts, trainees can see good practices being demonstrated and practise their own skills. • Integrate management of SAM into pre-service training. The priority measure for addressing training needs is to integrate management of SAM into pre-service training for health and nutrition staff, working directly with national institutions responsible for establishing curricula. BOX 21 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 36 political interest, to reduce overall production costs, making it more affordable and reducing the need for foreign currency. However, UNICEF can usually source RUTF more cost effectively offshore. This limitation of local production should be kept in mind when earmarking programmatic funds for local purchases of RUTF. Two factors limiting local production have still not been resolved: insufficient or erratic demand, and complications in producing RUTF. Insufficient/erratic demand Local production of RUTF becomes economically feasible when there is stable annual demand for the product at a minimum of 20,000 cartons (276 MT) per year. This level of demand has not been reached in many countries, though sustaining • Use of the forecasting tool to define requirements, together with country partners, using the best information available, reflecting scale-up/expansion plans and patterns of seasonal fluctuations. • Improving calculation of programme targets for planning and forecasting. Methods for indirect estimation may be less accurate than using previous years’ admissions or consumption figures. Improvements to the accuracy and timeliness of reporting are required for indirect estimation to be reliable. Extrapolation of current consumption is also required where reports are missing, or to take account of realistic expansion plans and any predicted surges in prevalence (see annex A) • Forecasting at district/subnational and national levels to improve accuracy • Maintaining minimum stock levels at health facility, district, subnational and national levels • Implementing contingency planning for emergencies as well as reductions in access (for example due to rainy season) using the appropriate section in the therapeutic supplies forecasting tool (see box 3) • Improving systems to communicate stock levels and ordering. RapidSMS technology has shown some potential for improving communication of stock levels and requests up the supply chain, thus avoiding supply breaks (see box 22). • Supporting appropriate stock management to minimize wastage (see box 23). (b) Considering local production of RUTF As noted above, local production of RUTF can facilitate the scale-up of management of SAM, but it should not be a prerequisite for the implementation of SAM management. Local