is conscious or can be roused and is able to drink: • Give 50 ml of 10% glucose or sucrose (sugar). Or • Give F-75 diet by mouth If the child is losing consciousness, cannot be aroused or has convulsions: • Give IV sterile 10% glucose (5ml/kg), followed by 50ml of 10% glucose or sucrose by naso-gastric tube. When the child regains consciousness: • Immediately begin giving F-75 diet. • Continue frequent oral or NG feeding with F-75 diet to prevent a recurrence. • All children with suspected hypoglycaemia should also be given the second line antibiotic. The response to treatment is rapid. If a very lethargic or unconscious child does not respond with treatment, there is another cause for the clinical condition which must be found and treated. xcvi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Severe anaemia Diagnosis of severe anaemia If the haemoglobin concentration is less than 40 g/l or the packed-cell volume is less than 12%, the child has very severe anaemia, which can cause heart failure. Treatment of severe anaemia Children with very severe anaemia need a blood transfusion. • Give 10 ml of packed red cells or whole blood per kg of body weight slowly over 3 hours. • It is particularly important that the volume of 10 ml/kg is not exceeded in severely malnourished children. If the severely anaemic child has signs of cardiac failure, transfuse packed cells (5-7 ml/kg) rather than whole blood. • Ensure that blood is screened for Hepatitis B, C and for HIV • All children should be fasted during and for at least 3 hours after a blood transfusion • If the child is dehydrated and has severe anaemia – treat the dehydration first. If the blood is to be given for anaemia it should be given during the first 24 hours after admission. Children who receive blood for anaemia should not be getting ReSoMal. • Where a blood transfusion is not available, the health care provider only has the option of giving folic acid on admission and giving iron once the child has an appetite and is gaining weight (usually after 1 4days). The following doses should be given: Age Group Dose Duration < 2 years 25 mg iron + 100-400 µg folic acid daily 3 months 2-12 years 60 mg iron + 400 µg folic acid