World Health Organization and the United Nations Children’s Fund,’ www.who.int/nutrition/publications/ severemalnutrition/9789241598163_eng.pdf. 53 Seal, A., and Kerac M., 2007, ‘Operational implications of using 2006 World Health Organization growth standards in nutrition programmes: secondary data analysis,’ http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ pmc/articles/PMC1847893/pdf/bmj-334-7596-res-00733-el.pdf. 54 Myatt, M., Tanya Khara and Steve Collins, 2006, ‘A review of methods to detect cases of severely malnourished children in the community for their admission into community-based therapeutic care programs,’ http://www.who.int/nutrition/publications/ severemalnutrition/FNB_0379-5721_A_review.pdf. SAM MANAGEMENT: INFORMATION FOR PROGRAMMING 45 and support for local production. The option of local production of RUTF initially offered hopes of reduced product price, reduced transportation costs, more responsive delivery times and the potential to contribute to the economy of a country. Initially, a patent by Nutriset (the company involved in the original development of the product and responsible for the majority of production) on their Plumpy’nut branded recipe for RUTF restricted local production to those producers operating under Nutriset’s franchise scheme and according to certain conditions of ingredient purchase, production quantities and potential markets. Over the last few years, however, international pressure from agencies, media and high profile commentators has emphasized the humanitarian imperative of ensuring sufficient and timely supplies of RUTF to countries. This has led to a relaxing of restrictions and the issuing of usage agreements to local producers so that they can operate using the Plumpy’nut recipe without having restrictive conditions imposed on them. To date, however, due to the high cost of certain ingredients (particularly milk powder), the need to import ingredients as well as packaging materials, government import/customs duty, and the challenge of achieving economies of scale in smaller production facilities, local produced RUTF remains more costly than the Nutriset product. However, reduced transport costs and shortened transportation time can offer considerable savings, not to mention benefits to local economy including employment and building local capacity. Global initiatives and the inclusion of management of SAM Since CMAM was endorsed by United Nations agencies in 2007, the issue of SAM, including its contribution to mortality and its management, has increasingly been reflected on international agendas. The Lancet series highlighted the importance of SAM as a major contributor to mortality and management of SAM therefore as a key priority. This has further stimulated attention to effective programmes for SAM management. depending on context and resources, targeted supplementary feeding for the treatment of MAM, a more complete approach to CMAM was born. In parallel to these developments,