to record the ideas. Plenary: The entire group comes together to share ideas. Appoint a timekeeper. Pose a few questions for group discussion. Role-play: Participants act out a specific situation based on the details about the “person” they are asked to play. Structure the role-play well, keeping it brief and clear in focus. Give clear and concise instructions to participants. Case study: Pairs or small groups are told or read about a specific situation, event or incident and asked to analyse and solve it. Make the situation, event or incident real and focused on the topic. Demonstration: A resource person performs a specific task, showing others how to do it. The participants then practice the same task. Demonstrate the appropriate and inappropriate ways to perform a task and discuss the differences. Have participants perform the task and give them feedback. Field visit: Participants and trainers/facilitators visit a health facility or community setting to observe a task or procedure and then practice. Before the visit, coordinate with the site, give participants clear directions before arrival, and divide them into small groups accompanied by a facilitator. Meet with the site supervisor, staff, or other representative on arrival. Provide opportunity to share experiences and give and receive feedback. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 9 Action plan preparation: Participants synthesise knowledge, skills, attitudes, and beliefs into a doable plan. This bridges classroom activities with practical application at work site. Share action plans. Talk/presentation: A speaker shares information, sometimes using audio or visual aids. Start with a story or visual that captures the audience’s attention. Present an initial case problem around which the talk/presentation will be structured. Ask participants test questions even if they have little prior knowledge to motivate them to listen to the talk/presentation for the answer. Set a time limit. Allow time for feedback, comments, and questions. Pose a question for participants to solve based on the talk/presentation. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 10 ANNEX 3. SUGGESTED REVIEW ENERGISERS (GROUP AND TEAM BUILDING) 1. The participants and trainers form a circle. One trainer throws a ball to a participant and asks the participant a question. When the participant answers correctly to the group’s satisfaction, she/he throws the ball to another participant and asks another question. The process is repeated until all participants answer a question satisfactorily. 2. The participants form