of the district. Then ask participants to look over the mapping matrices. Discuss the information in each and why the matrix would be useful. Provide copies of Matrix 2 for each working group to fill out, clarifying that the matrix is looking for information on health and nutrition services, programmes and community initiatives, and not necessarily CMAM. For each of the other matrices, ask the groups to develop a plan for how the information would be gathered. Ask one group to present their matrix to the other groups. Discuss in plenary. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 126 PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: CAPACITY ASSESSMENTS. Explain to participants that an essential part of planning CMAM services, in both emergency and non-emergency contexts, is to assess the capacity of existing health systems to support CMAM. This helps planners to identify what they can build on. This includes: • A thorough analysis of leadership and governance: Assessing the capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH) and collaborating NGOs; identifying, creating or adapting national policies and guidelines that support CMAM services; reviewing the health surveillance and reporting systems in the district, region or country in which a programme is being planned. • Analysing the health financing and determining financial resources to support the programme or service delivery in a sustainable manner • Health workforce for CMAM • Knowledge and information systems for CMAM • Access to CMAM equipment and supplies: Therapeutic food supplies (e.g., ready-to-use therapeutic food [RUTF], F75, F100, ReSoMal, combined mineral and vitamin mix [CMV]), medicines, equipment (e.g., scales, height boards, mid-upper arm circumference [MUAC] tapes), monitoring and reporting tools • CMAM service delivery: Community outreach (e.g., community assessment, community mobilisation and training, community screening and referral systems), inpatient care, outpatient care, supplementary feeding, health system, staffing, integration in health services, links with other relevant services, and continuous quality improvement WORKING GROUPS: PRACTICE CAPACITY ASSESSMENT FOR CMAM. Refer participants to Handout 7.5 Capacity Grid for CMAM at the District Level and to the grids in Handout 7.7 Example Capacity Grids for Outpatient Care at the Health Facility Level and for CMAM at the National Level. Discuss the grids and in what situations they would be most useful. Ask groups to reflect on the Elements to Address column and fill in the other columns: Who Currently, How Currently, MOH Capacity to Do This, Gaps, Solutions and Priority. Ask one group