MUAC >115mm Clinically well And 15% weight gain And No oedema for two consecutive visits (if admitted with oedema) Other reasons for exit Died Child died while in inpatient care Defaulter Child is absent from in-patient care for 2 consecutive days Medical referral out of programme Where the medical condition of the child requires referral out of in-patient care e.g. to referral hospital Exit Procedure Where there is OTP ▪ Explain the situation to the mother/caretaker. ▪ Explain to the mother /caretaker that her child will continue treatment in the OTP. If the mother/caretaker has been transferred from OTP, then he/she will continue the treatment at the same OTP.[and inform local community providers If the child has not been transferred from OTP, inform the caretaker where the OTP is. (You should have a list of the OTP’s operational in your catchment area). ▪ Complete a transfer slip including relevant details of treatment and drugs given (Annex 22) and give the top copy to the mother/ caretaker and keep a copy in the file. ▪ Complete routine medications. Give de-worming treatment on exit from in-patient care if not previously received in out-patient care. (Annex 18). ▪ Give the mother/caretaker enough RUTF to last until the next OTP session (see Annex 10 for RUTF quantities by weight). Where there is No OTP ▪ Establish an OTP at the hospital/inpatient site. If this is not possible or there is no possibility that the child will be able to return to the OTP, then the child should remain in inpatient care and continue RUTF until discharge criteria has been reached. Treatment protocol and discharge criteria are the same as OTP. ▪ If the caretaker refuses to return to the OTP or to stay in inpatient care, provide one-two weeks supply of RUTF and ask her/him to return with the child for a follow up visit. ▪ Tell the mother/caretaker to take the child to the nearest health facility if the child’s condition deteriorates. xxxv National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Severely malnourished infants less than 6 months special care and should be treated in inpatient care. All infants less than 6 months of age have special dietary needs because they metabolically more vulnerable and have higher water requirements than older infants. Supporting exclusive breastfeeding is the cornerstone of management and longer term survival