and approach required for management not just of SAM but of all nutrition programmes that reach beyond the health system. However, when nutrition coordination cuts across ministries, there can be challenges, such as unclear accountabilities, resulting in fragmentation of the approach at the field level. In a balanced approach it is possible to maximize the advantages of both approaches. In Niger, for example, the MoH nutrition directorate is responsible for coordination, and management of SAM is included in special programmes under the Office of the President. Note: Regarding fragmentation at the field level, see H. Deconinck et al., ‘Review of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition Implementation in West Africa: Summary Report’, 2011, www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/WESTAFRICA-CMAM-Synthesis-Oct2011-FANTA.pdf. BOX 12 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 24 data, as outlined below. Data quality will also need to be taken into account during the analysis process and incorporated into the M&E plan. Where data quality issues exist, they should be systematically addressed as part of overall supervision and management of the scale-up process. It is useful to collectively review progress of the implementation of the scale-up plan and the removal of critical bottlenecks with stakeholders on a regular basis (every six or 12 month) as part of M&E and ongoing planning of the national programme. Assess programme performance indicators Performance of SAM management should be assessed primarily through analysis of (a) the effectiveness of treatment (rates of recovery, death, default and non-recovery) and (b) treatment coverage (access to and use of services) (see box 13). Measuring progress towards scaling up geographical coverage is also a useful means of assessment (see annex A). Additional useful indicators are (a) the degree to which the programme is integrated into existing systems (sustainability), (b) the effectiveness of the supply chain and (c) the completeness of data on performance. Benchmarks and key indicators to monitor the performance of management of SAM are suggested in annex B, and discussed below. In the case of emergencies, appropriate indicators of performance are outlined in the CCC handbook (available in English, French and on the costs calculated during the planning process, available resources and an understanding of the enabling environment in terms of government budgeting processes. It will also allow for future plans based on agreed resource mobilization strategies. (See page 31 for more on addressing financing bottlenecks.) Step 5. Develop a monitoring and evaluation plan Identify areas needing monitoring As part of developing the scale-up plan,