contexts. • The evening before the practicum, assign each participant to one of the eight groups. Ask the participants to designate two moderators/interviewers and one recorder for each group. Distribute the interview guides and ask the participants to review them and become comfortable with the content before the interviews. Have the moderators/interviewers decide which questions each will ask. Make sure designated recorders have spiral-bound notebooks for recording the discussion. • The day before, ensure that transportation is available and, if appropriate, send a message to the communities confirming the team’s arrival time. If possible, travel to the communities to confirm that arrangements for the group interviews are in place and to answer any questions the community members might have. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 60 Module 3 FIELD VISIT ACTIVITY 1: PRACTICE CONDUCTING COMMUNITY INTERVIEWS Small Working Groups: Conduct interviews with community leaders; existing extension workers, CHWs and volunteers; younger community mothers/caregivers; and older community mothers/caregivers including grandmothers using simple interview guides developed by trainers. • Form small working groups, with two participants serving as moderator/interviewers and one serving as recorder. • Transport participants to the two communities. • Thank community leaders for allowing this learning opportunity, then have participants join their assigned groups. • In each community, at least one facilitator circulates between the interview groups, noting progress and helping correct any problems or misunderstandings. • In each group, have the two designated moderator/interviewers take turns asking questions and managing the interview. • After the interview, the recorder should seek clarification for any uncertain points. After the interview subjects leave, the recorder completes the group’s notes with the help of the other participants. • Refer to Handout 3.13 Team Checklist for Community Outreach Field Visit. Module 3 FIELD VISIT ACTIVITY 2: CONSOLIDATE FINDINGS FROM INTERVIEWS Working Group Presentations, Feedback/Discussion: Consolidate and Present Findings • Have participant groups consolidate findings from each community group they interviewed according to questions from the interview guides and this module’s community assessment session. • Ask each group to present its findings and write them on the flip chart. Help to tease out insights from the group presentations. Information is triangulated. • Ask participants to discuss their experiences with the interviews. Offer an assessment based on observation of the interviews. • Lead participants through a process of revision of the interview guides, stressing that the discipline of daily reflection