an experience-based food security measurement scale, composed of eight questions asking to report on the occurrence of experiences and conditions that are typically associated with food insecurity. Overall both the analytical tools showed more or less the same proportion of households as food insecure in the Merged Areas. According to the results obtained through CARI overall, 35 percent of the households are faced with food insecurity. Of these, 31 percent are moderately food insecure while 4 percent are severely food insecure. Whereas prevalence of moderate and severe food insecurity according to FIES is 30 percent while severe food insecurity is 6 percent. The food consumption of the household is also not very diverse as more than two thirds of the households are having ‘low4’ or ‘medium5’ dietary diversity score6. On the other hand, about one third of the households fall under the ‘poor7’ or 3 Commonly known as village/community 4 <4.5 food groups 5 4.5 to 6 food groups 6 Measures the number of different food groups consumed over a period of one week (seven days) 7 Households that are not consuming staples and vegetables every day and never or very seldom consume protein-rich food such as meat and dairy Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 2 ‘borderline8’ food consumption groups9. On the Hunger Scale10, about 82.80 percent of the households are in ‘No Hunger’ about 8 percent are in Slight Hunger while 9 percent and 1 percent in Moderate hunger and severe hunger respectively. To meet the food shortfall, around 22 percent of the households are resorting to crisis coping strategies11 or emergency coping strategies12. The CFSLA identified 684,57713 children as out of school in the Merged Areas, the highest number of such children is located South Waziristan District as 137,361 while the lowest is in Tribal SubDivision Lakki as 2,742 children. Around 17.5 percent of the individuals, above 18 years of age, do not hold Computerised National ID Card (CNIC) while Birth Registration (below 18 years) has been recorded as only 7.8 percent. Average Household monthly income stands at PKR28967 while majority (65 percent) households, as a primary source of income, are mainly dependant on the unsustainable livelihood strategies14. Around 47 percent of the households have contracted some form of loan in the past 6 months, mainly for ‘food needs’ followed by ‘Health/medical’ expenses. Agricultural activities in Merged Areas are somehow