Bannu, Dera Ismail Khan, Kohat, Lakki , Peshawar and Tank 17 Provisional Summary Results of 6th Population and Housing Census 2017 18 Complex Emergency Wing (FDMA) of the PDMA KP Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 5 Bureau of Statistics facilitated a one-day orientation of the field staff engaged in the households listing activity. Institute of Management Sciences (IMS) Peshawar University was hired to facilitate the BOS Merged Areas in the data collection process. A CSPro based data entry application was developed by WFP VAM Unit. The survey commenced in the second week of July 2019 and was completed during the first week of August 2019. Objectives of the Study The overall objective of the CFSLA is to generate fresh evidence to inform programme and policy decisions for supporting immediate recovery of the returned households considering the prevailing market situation, livelihoods and food security in the Merged Districts of the province. Following are the specific objectives: 1. Develop households’ food security profile (number, location, and characteristics of food insecure households) 2. Identify the nature of food insecurity (acute/chronic), its main causes including shocks and consequences in terms of coping mechanisms; 3. Understand the food market mechanisms -including markets’ functionality, integration, response capacity & constraints; and linkage of food security with the markets; 4. Provide data to update findings from the Vulnerability Assessment 2017; and 5. To propose recommendations for improving household food security and livelihood situation Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 6 Methodology The CFSLA used a mix methods approach to conduct research including household level interviews, community level Focus Groups Discussions (FGDs) and also a rapid market appraisal. Household Interviews The inferences drawn in this report are mainly based on the findings from the household level survey. A comprehensive questionnaire was designed to conduct household level interviews. The questionnaire included all the essential variables/questions required to assess the prevalence of food security i.e. household composition, household level food consumption and expenditure, coping strategies adopted by the households in case of food shortfall, livelihood strategies, Health related issues and WASH etc. Focus Groups Discussions To Understand the food security issues at the community level, the CFSLA also included Focus Groups Discussions with the key community members19 as well in all the PSUs. . The information collected from the households’ level survey triangulated/validated with the information