4) height-for-age (HFA)/length-for-age (LFA); 5) weight-for-age (WFA). Remind participants that these training modules focus on acute malnutrition, and nutrition vulnerability in at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months of age. Ask participants which assessment methods (above) assess acute malnutrition. • Define acute malnutrition and the cutoffs for SAM and MAM. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 31 • Acute malnutrition is caused by inadequate food consumption and/or illness resulting in bilateral pitting oedema or sudden weight loss. It is defined by the presence of bilateral pitting oedema or wasting (low MUAC or WFH/WFL). • Acute malnutrition comprises both SAM and MAM and can have the following indicators (with cutoffs for children age 6–59 months): Bilateral pitting oedema MUAC WFH/WFL z-score SAM: Present < 115 mm < -3 MAM: Not present ≥ 115 mm and < 125 mm ≥ -3 and < -2 • Further explain that MUAC is a better predictor of mortality in children under 5 than WFH z-score. It is also relatively easy to measure and can be done by mothers and other family members in the community. BRAINSTORM: NUTRITION VULNERABILITY IN AT-RISK MOTHERS AND INFANTS UNDER 6 MONTHS OF AGE. Ask participants to identify indicators used to identify nutrition vulnerability in infants under 6 months and the limitations of the indicators. Complete the responses by explaining the following: • There is growing evidence on the use of MUAC to identify nutrition vulnerability in infants under 6 months. However, classification cutoffs have not yet been established. It is recommended that MUAC data for infants under 6 months be collected to help build the evidence to inform case management. • Recent evidence has shown that WFA can help identify underweight infants who are also at higher risk of mortality. WFA will therefore be used as a criteria for admission of nutritionally vulnerable infants under 6 months of age. • In infants under 6 months of age, assessment of nutrition vulnerability is not limited to anthropometric indicators. Ability to feed, medical condition, and maternal mental, physical, and social circumstances are also of primary importance. • The infant’s well-being is determined by the mother’s well-being; therefore, the mother and infant are considered as a “mother-infant pair.” • More information with be covered later in this module under Objective 4: Assess and Classify Nutrition Vulnerability of At-Risk Mothers and Infants Under 6 Months of Age. Training Guide