feed the child before the child leaves the OTP. It will also help the child adjust slowly from eating mostly RUTF to eating mostly local foods. In addition to the key messages on RUTF, three essential messages (must be given and practiced at OTP) xx National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women ▪ Hand-washing with soap before eating and after defecation. ▪ Exclusive breastfeeding (for 6 months) and introduction and use of appropriate complementary foods using local foods. ▪ Continued feeding during illness. EXIT CRITERIA FROM OTP Table 3: Exit criteria for OTP Category Criteria Cured MUAC >115mm Clinically well And 15% weight gain And No oedema for two consecutive visits (if admitted with oedema) Defaulted Absent for 3 consecutive visits (OTP is every week) Absent for 2 consecutive visits (OTP is every two weeks) Died Died during time registered in OTP Not recovered* Has not reached exit criteria within 4 months. *Before this time, children should have been followed up at home. Children who have had weight loss for 3 consecutive weeks or have not gained weight for 5 consecutive weeks must be transferred to inpatient care according to the Action Protocol. Children who have not met the exit criteria after 3 months should be referred for medical attention. Exit procedure ▪ Explain to the caretaker that the child is recovered (or if not recovered why her/she is being discharged). ▪ Note the final outcome on the OTP card and file the card under “Children discharged cured” or “non-recovered.” ▪ Advise the caretaker to take the child to the nearest OTP or health facility if the child refuses to eat or has any of the following: -High fever -Frequent watery stools with blood or diarrhoea lasting more than 4 days -Difficult or fast breathing -Vomiting -Development of oedema ▪ Counsel the mother/caretaker on good nutrition and appropriate use of local foods, hygiene and feeding practices and the importance of continued breastfeeding for children less than 2 years. ▪ Ensure the caretaker understands how to use any medications that have been given / prescribed. ▪ Refer to a Supplementary Feeding Programme (SFP) if available. Explain that the child will remain in SFP for 2 months. Provide a referral slip to SFP (Annex 7). If SFP is not available refer to other ongoing community health and nutrition programs and health education