for money” (WHO) Integrated management of SAM: • It is one of the basic health services to which a child has access. • It is embedded into a broader set of nutrition activities (IYCF, micronutrient supplementation, etc.). • It is integrated within a multisectoral approach to tackling the determinants of undernutrition Note: ENN, 2012a, ‘Government experiences of scale-up of Community-based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM): A synthesis of lessons’, www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/ CMAM-Conference-Synthesis,-Addis,-ENN-2012.pdf. BOX 29 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 48 objective of supporting national capacities for scaled up management of SAM. UNICEF’s commitment to the management of SAM in non-emergency contexts is contained in the strategic plan 2014-2017 and in the inclusion of SAM treatment in the guidelines to Scale Up Nutrition (see box 31). In the new Strategic Plan 2014-2017, UNICEF adopts an integrated approach to nutrition programming, combining both nutrition-specific interventions and nutrition-sensitive approaches, focusing on package of nutrition interventions delivered within the health system but also at the community level and/or through programmes implemented by NGOs. Opportunities for this are addressed in more detail in the Guidance Document, but in general, management of SAM can be seen as linking with, as an entry point for, or as a means of reinforcing a variety of other health and nutrition interventions. In particular, rooting management of SAM within a wider IYCF programme is appropriate to provide a continuum of care for acute malnutrition, for both infants and children, and to site the approach within a prevention framework (see annex E for related IYCF guidance). Integration of SAM management into nutrition policy is a mark of progress, yet integration at policy level does not guarantee implementation of an integrated approach, which also requires effective coordination and operational capacity. Providing a continuum of nutrition services therefore needs to be considered at assessment, design and planning stages as well as during analysis of barriers and bottlenecks. UNICEF policy, roles and partnerships UNICEF policy on management of SAM UNICEF’s commitment to supporting management of SAM in the emergency context is elaborated in the 2010 CCCs,73 in which management of SAM is a specific programme area (see box 30). Management of SAM is also supported by the UNICEF approach to humanitarian action, which stresses the importance of improving coverage (a key feature of CMAM) and enhancing the policy environment and risk reduction through support to national capacities and systems. The UNICEF disaster risk reduction approach74 has