in outpatient care. 8. Used an action protocol to determine when additional action is needed 9. Explained discharge criteria and procedures for at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months and children 6–59 months 10. Described linkages between outpatient care and other services, programmes, and initiatives • Ask for any questions and feedback on the module. Distribute Handout 4.21 Essentials of Outpatient Care for SAM Without Medical Complications as a summary of Module 4. • Let participants know that they will have an opportunity to practice during the outpatient care field visit. • Ask participants to fill out the module evaluation form. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 87 Module 4 Outpatient Care Field Practice Overview A maximum of five participants should be at each outpatient care site on a given day. Coordinate with as many outpatient care sites as necessary to keep the number of participants at five or fewer. An experienced health care provider, ideally someone affiliated with the outpatient care site, should mentor the participants, first by demonstrating the activities, then by inviting participants to take on more responsibility. Participants must complete all activities under the supervision of an experienced health care provider. Be certain that participants bring their copies of all handouts dealing with admission and discharge criteria and action, medical treatment, and nutrition rehabilitation protocols (listed below), as well as any other tools trainers deem necessary. The field practice for Module 2: Defining and Measuring Acute Malnutrition will be done during this visit, so participants also should bring Handout 2.4 Assessing Age, Bilateral Pitting Oedema, MUAC, Weight and Height/Length. Pair participants with someone who speaks the local language. Preparation of Outpatient Care Field Practice Refer participants to Handout 4.22 Outpatient Care Field Practice Checklist and discuss and review the procedures and steps that participants will undertake at the community-based sites: • Anthropometry measurements (four children including one infant under 6 months, if possible) • Assessment of nutritional vulnerability of mothers and infants under 6 months of age (three motherinfant pairs, if possible) • Admission (four children, if possible) • Outpatient care follow-on session (four children, if possible) • Discharge (three children, if possible) • Accepting referrals from inpatient care • Talking with staff and mothers/caregivers who come to outpatient care Participants might need to see as many cases as possible to understand the different scenarios of decision-making during admission, outpatient care