such as infants and HIV-positive older children and adults with SAM may represent substantial caseloads in some situations. In these cases it will be important to estimate the magnitude and distribution of SAM for those groups. (For more information see annex F, Management of SAM in other groups.) Estimate the burden Estimating the approximate yearly burden of SAM (the need for treatment) at the national level Guidance point: Data sources • Population and health service provision data (e.g., Demographic Health Surveys, routine health data) • Nutrition survey/assessment data from recent years (district, regional, national) • Maps showing district boundaries and/or health services • Information on who is doing what and where in health and nutrition and specifically for management of SAM • Relevant policy, strategy and guidance documents (health, nutrition, other) • Specific guidelines/protocols for management of SAM and MAM • Any compiled programme outcome data for management of SAM including indicators on quality (district, regional, national) • Management of SAM programme and/or pilot reviews and evaluations • Coverage assessment/survey data • Any information/studies on community-level structures and community perceptions and practices BOX 1 among children aged 6–59 months can be very useful to illustrate the extent of the problem. Having this information helps in advocating for a response, and it can subsequently be fed into planning. However, the limitations of using such estimates must be taken into account, particularly for planning (see page 56 and annex A). Determine geographical and seasonal distribution Prevalence of SAM is rarely uniform. Assessment of the problem should therefore also involve use of data on the distribution of SAM within the country – noting, for example, particular areas or population groups that have recorded especially high levels of SAM. Understanding the geographic distribution of SAM will help prioritizing scale-up activities (e.g., priority given to high burden and low coverage) especially when resources are limited. Any data on the seasonality of acute malnutrition should also be taken into account. Information can be gathered through seasonal calendars and review of the literature or nutrition surveys to pinpoint specific periods where different factors (such as the lean season or rainy season) may exacerbate the underlying causes of malnutrition. Understanding seasonality of SAM will aid in determining where and when resources and additional support may be needed. Understanding the underlying causes of malnutrition should also be factored during the assessment of the situation particularly in geographic areas where