outdated and based on projections. • There is still much to be learned about the accuracy of incidence correction factors. If national and subnational surveys (including multiple indicator cluster surveys (MICS) and Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS)) are to be used to calculate overall caseloads and programme targets, they must include accurate measurement of SAM according to the measurement criteria used nationally for treatment programmes. 101 MUAC and weight-for-height will not necessarily identify the same individual with SAM. or recurrent and external or domestic in order to assess spending on CMAM by UNICEF and governments. This method shows promise as a way to periodically evaluate spending and compare costs between regions or districts and countries. The components are: • Comparison of costs among children with SAM or MAM and well-nourished children • Percentage of costs associated with each aspect of the CMAM package (community outreach, counselling, provision of RUTF, etc.), allowing comparisons related to addressing the cycle of malnutrition • Analysis of cost per beneficiary, which addresses the cost per cure through the CMAM programme This methodology provides an overall picture of the total costs associated with CMAM, including all actors, and is not limited to the outpatient or inpatient treatment of SAM. It also aids understanding of how the proportion of domestic and external costs and capital and recurrent costs changes over time. This can be very useful for planning and for tracking progress towards integration of services. For example, the analysis for Nepal undertaken for the five districts where CMAM has been implemented since 2008 concludes that “UNICEF’s share of capital costs far exceeds that of the Government of Nepal due to investment in capacity and protocol development and procurement of equipment. However, the Government of Nepal’s share of recurrent costs is higher (56 per cent versus 44 per cent). UNICEF’s share of all costs is around 53 per cent, but the Government of Nepal’s growing participation in cost sharing through integration of CMAM into the health system has reduced UNICEF’s contribution over time” (UNICEF 2012c100). 100 UNICEF. 2012c. Evaluation of Community Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM): Nepal case Study. https://intranet.unicef. org/epp/evalsite.nsf/8e1ddc662803020785256ede00706595/ f51e43862c8cb5a385257a52004e463d?OpenDocument SAM MANAGEMENT: INFORMATION FOR PROGRAMMING 57 outcomes such as mortality, morbidity, fertility, school performance and labour productivity. It helps stakeholders in health, agriculture, education and finance to share a common understanding of nutritional problems and costeffective solutions. Management of SAM can be included in the