in health posts; in others (for example, Bangladesh14) (Sadler et al.) by community volunteers or mobile teams (see box 6). Bringing services closer to the population, avoiding the need for parents to travel for long distances (which often means 13 Chamois, S., “Decentralisation and scale up of outpatient management of SAM in Ethiopia (2008-2010),” Field Exchange 40, www.ennonline.net/fex/40/decentralisation. 14 Sadler, K. et al., 2008, ‘Community Case Management of Severe Acute Malnutrition in Southern Bangladesh’, Save the Children and Feinstein International Center, www.cmamforum.org/Pool/ Resources/SAM-Bangladesh-Feinstein-Save-2011.pdf. Guidance point: Dispersed populations and mobile teams Where few children with SAM attend a facility, delivering the small quantities of supplies needed is expensive, and staff members have fewer opportunities to consolidate their skills. In such cases, mobile teams linked to a central fixed site may be the most effective way to deliver outpatient care, particularly in areas with dispersed populations. Mobile teams are being tested in Ethiopia, northern Kenya and Somalia. Efficiencies are further maximized by having these teams deliver multiple health services at one point of contact. BOX 6 PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 15 Programmes are usually more effective if the heads of district health offices and health facilities can allocate responsibilities based on their team members’ skills and interests. The first step is to familiarize district health offices and heads of facilities with well-run programmes. This can be achieved through the use of learning sites and exchange visits (see page 12). At the community level, involvement will be guided by community inquiry, which identifies important community agents and communication channels (see annex B). Community health workers can speed the scale-up process by providing an instant delivery mechanism for mobilization and screening activities. If there are no community health workers, volunteers and other key community figures can be recruited for mobilization if motivational packages can be adequately worked out and maintained (see page 37). Develop community mobilization strategies If community-level management of SAM is to be effective, communities must know about the programme, mechanisms must be in place for timely identification and referral of cases, and follow-up on children who don’t appear for followup visits or are not responding well to treatment. Development of these strategies should be driven and informed by community inquiry. Strategies should also detail how cases are to progress from ‘active’ case finding, in which community agents seek out cases, to increasing levels of ‘passive’ case finding, in which