of a Community Assessment TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 3.2 Community Assessments and Handout 3.3 Community Assessment Steps and Methods. GROUP DISCUSSION: THE ROLE OF THE COMMUNITY ASSESSMENT. Note for participants that this is the first step in preparation for CMAM community outreach. In plenary, ask participants why a community assessment is important, what kind of information can be gathered, and how it can be used. Fill in gaps in the discussion as necessary, noting that: • The assessment is an opportunity to consider community participation and service access and uptake in CMAM in a systematic way and in a specific implementation context. • To best overcome barriers and reinforce existing boosters to participation, the community assessment can shed light on how the community is organised, how undernutrition is viewed, how the new service is likely to be received, and how the community can best support the outreach component. • The community assessment should be used as an opportunity to identify and acknowledge the limits of staff knowledge of the local community. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: WHAT COMMUNITY ASSESSMENTS CONSIST OF. Review the content on Handout 3.2 Community Assessments, Section B making note of the two key questions that community assessments must answer: 1) what is likely to affect demand for CMAM locally, and 2) how can community outreach be organised (supply) to meet and increase this demand most effectively? WORKING GROUPS: METHODS OF COMMUNITY ASSESSMENT. Divide participants into working groups of four or five. Refer them to Handout 3.2 Section B. Ask them to think of their own communities and the most relevant factors affecting demand there. Reminding them that the assessment is an opportunity to identify and acknowledge the limits of staff knowledge of the local community, ask them who in the community they should approach to learn more about factors affecting demand. Have one group briefly report back in plenary. Ask the same groups to think through the supply side and try to answer the questions in Handout 3.2, Section C. As with the demand side, ask them who in the community must be involved to help answer these questions. Have another group briefly report back in plenary. Refer participants to Handout 3.3 Community Assessment Steps and Methods. Review in plenary and discuss any differences between their responses to the assessment steps and those involved on the handout. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: METHODS OF COMMUNITY ASSESSMENT. Referring back to Handout 3.3,