should be collected and reported every month as follows: Children entering the programme Children who enter the program to begin nutritional treatment are new enrolees. They are divided into the following groups: ▪ Wasted children (MUAC, W/H) ▪ Children with oedema ▪ Transfers from inpatient care to OTP: Children who return to OTP after inpatient care continue their treatment in OTP. On the reporting form these cases are noted in the column called ‘Moved in’. ▪ Return after default: Children who return to OTP or SFP after default: Children who have defaulted and return within 2 months to continue treatment. On the reporting from these cases are noted under the column ‘Moved in’. These groups together =Total enrolment lv National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Exits Children who are no longer in the programme ▪ Number discharged recovered ▪ Number of deaths ▪ Number of defaults ▪ Number non recovered ▪ Medical transfers ▪ Transfers to inpatient care from OTP: Children who are transferred from OTP to inpatient care are not considered exits. They will return to OTP once they are stabilised in inpatient care. On the reporting form these cases are noted under the column ‘Moved out.’ These groups together=total exits Total at the end of the month = Total at the beginning of the month+ total admissions –total discharges. Completing the monthly report ▪ Programme data can be complied on a weekly basis on tally sheets ▪ Programme data should be compiled every month in a monthly report format. Each OTP, inpatient and SFP site should complete a report. Tally sheets may be used on a weekly basis to compile data. The tally sheets can then be used to compile the monthly report. See Annex 28. The monthly report formats for OTP, inpatient care and SFP can be found in Annexes 18, 17 and 27. ▪ Reports must be filled in accurately. Cases should not be double counted. Some staff may find it useful to use to fill the reporting format in weekly and then compile the weekly data into a monthly report. ▪ The data from each site should be compiled into a monthly report for the whole programme. This can be done on paper or using an Excel spreadsheet. Using the monthly reports to determine program performance ▪ The monthly report can be used to