01 9 -2 0 20 Map showing Merged Districts and Tribal Sub-Divisions The boundaries, names and the designations used on this map do not imply official endorsementor acceptance by the United Nations. Dotted line represents approximately the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir agreed upon by India and Pakistan. The final status of Jammu and Kashmir has not yet been agreed upon by the parties. Data Sources: Admin boundaries: VAM SDI Data Created: July 18, 2020 Map Production: Vulnerability Analysis and Mapping (VAM) Unit, WFP, Pakistan 0 25 50 Kilometers ± Coast Line !. Ç Provincial Office TSD: Tribal Sub Division P.A.K: Pakistan Administered Kashmir I.A.K: India Administered Kashmir Country Boundary Line of Control Province Boundary District Boundary Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 4 Introduction The Merged Areas of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are located in the Northwest of Pakistan bordering Afghanistan, in the West and Baluchistan province of Pakistan in the South. Merged Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa were semi-autonomous tribal agencies until merger into Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province in May 2018. The Merged Districts consists of seven Districts15 and six tribal subdivisionspreviously known as the Frontier Regions16. The total estimated area of the merged District is about 27,220 square kilometres while the total population is 500,167,617. Merged Areas of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are one of the most remote and food insecure areas of the country. The food security and nutrition situation challenges are compounded by low production, limited livelihood opportunities, poor education, as well as the continuing law and order situation for more than a decade. The situation further aggravated when in 2008, the Government of Pakistan took offensive measures against militant activities in merged Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. As a consequence, millions of people fled the area and moved to safer places in neighbouring Districts. On a positive note, there are signs of significant shift since 2014 when the Government of Pakistan implemented erstwhile “FATA Sustainable Return and Rehabilitation Strategy” 2015 onwards. The government’s commitment is further renewed through “Tribal Decade Strategy 2020-2030” and a three-year, Accelerated Implementation Programme (AIP). Thanks to the significant improvement in security and the Government’s continued efforts, 97 percent of displaced families have already returned to their areas of origin18. The remaining families are from North Waziristan District and District Khyber are to be returned by June 2020, subject to an official announcement of the Government. The positive