estimation of spatial and overall coverage of CMAM programmes. Useful for programme managers wanting to assess the actual coverage of their programmes and obtain information on barriers to coverage Semi-Quantitative Evaluation of Access and Coverage (SQUEAC) guidance and software181 Valid International Explanation and tools for implementing low resource methods for evaluating coverage of CMAM programmes. Summary of coverage assessment methods182 Valid international Summary explanation of the different direct treatment coverage assessment methods SUPPLIES Nutrition therapeutic supplies forecast sheet183 UNICEF 2012 A Microsoft Excel-based tool to estimate annual supply needs for therapeutic care based on caseload and future plans. An updated version is incorporated into the Nutridash tool, and will be made available as an updated excel based tool. Update will be available on request to nutrition@unicef.org Articulation guideline for supply chain analysis184 Duke University/ UNICEF A web-based articulation guideline that aims to aid future supply chain analyses in the nutrition sector by describing each step in a supply chain analysis, identifying the strategic issues associated with that step, and providing examples from the RUTF supply chain analysis for each step Managing the Supply of Specialized Nutritious Foods185 WFP et al 2014 These guidelines aim to support the field operations of humanitarian organisations across the globe in better managing their supply chain of these products, consolidating best practices and providing practical guidance in a user friendly guide with answers to the most common questions. Technical bulletin No. 12: Nutrition Kits186 UNICEF Supply Division Gives the breakdown and target caseload for nutrition kits appropriate for emergency CMAM programmes. Useful for programme managers developing contingency plans and responding to emergency needs Technical Bulletin No 13. Revision 2 Mid-Upper Arm Circumference (MUAC) Tapes187 UNICEF Supply Division This bulletin explains the changes made to the cut-offs and colour coding of the MUAC tapes. The changes were done in response to the adoption of the WHO child growth standards that recommended admission of children with MUAC <11.5 cm into OTP for treatment of SAM. Technical Bulletin No. 15 Therapeutic Milk188 UNICEF Supply Division Provides an update on the changes made to the packaging of F-75 and F100 which are designed to reduce wastage and ensure correct proportions of water are used in preparation of the therapeutic milk. Technical Bulletin No. 17 ReSoMal189 UNICEF Supply Division Explains the rationale for the change in packaging made to ReSoMal which now has a smaller sachet size with fewer sachets