programmes in a similar context or on a gradual building up from existing health facility coverage. For example, a target of 50 per cent may be used for the first six months of the programme, rising to 70 or 80 per cent at the end of the first year in line with levels documented to be achievable in well-run CMAM programmes. It may be possible in some contexts to use known treatment coverage if this has been measured directly in other areas of operation, which can be extrapolated to take into account expansion plans and support capacities. In subsequent years, where a recent survey has generated an updated SAM prevalence estimate, the same equation can be used. If there is no recent survey, the result may not reflect the situation on the ground at that time. In this case, Method 2 is advised. 144 70 per cent in urban areas, 50 per cent in rural areas and 90 per cent in camps. Method 2: Setting targets for existing SAM programming An alternative method for estimating programme targets for already established CMAM programmes where admission reports are being collated is to extrapolate from the previous year’s admissions figures. The previous year’s collated admissions figures can be used by taking account of the following: • Adding on target estimates calculated in Method 1 for areas of expansion not covered in the previous year • Percentage reporting, i.e., if 75 per cent of facilities with CMAM services submit reports giving a total admissions of 3,620 children, a very rough estimate for 100 per cent of facilities would be (3,620/75) x 100 • Adding an estimated number of cases for any predictable surges in coverage and therefore admissions due to mobilization events, or further decentralization of services. The numbers to add on could be based on previous experiences of similar surges. • Any predicted increases in prevalence (and therefore estimated caseload) compared to the previous year (e.g., where early warning indicators predict higher than usual seasonal increases) The result will of course only be an estimate but one that is based on the reality of what programmes are achieving in terms of numbers of children reached. NOTE: There should be a consensus between all stakeholders (cluster or sector coordination level) and on the trends, figures from last years as well as actual capacity. A3. Indirectly estimating coverage Estimating geographical coverage There are two ways