of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Malnutrition in Pakistan contributes to high morbidity among pregnant and lactating women and morbidity and mortality among children under five. Many cases of acute malnutrition become severe and complicated due to delays in case detection and presentation at health facilities. Management of severe acute malnutrition has mostly been facility based, in paediatric wards and Stabilisation/Therapeutic feeding centres (SCs/TFCs) which requires a prolonged stay, posing difficulties for most families (and especially women), and as a result there are high default rates and relapses which are exacerbated by challenging socio economic and environmental factors. The Ministry of Health recognises that malnutrition is a problem which has not been tackled as yet and requires a comprehensive integrated public health approach to address it. The challenging operating environment means that it is essential to improve coverage and access and bring services close to where people live. The MoH is in the process of adopting community based management of acute malnutrition (CMAM) approach which has been widely used globally and has technical inputs from WHO, WFP and UNICEF. CMAM has been successfully implemented in Pakistan in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab and Balochistan. The MoH aims to integrate CMAM into ongoing routine health services for children under five and pregnant and lactating women and to scale up CMAM throughout the country. These guidelines have been developed to standardize the delivery of services. The protocols provide guidance to health care providers and community health workers. The guidelines will help improve early case detection and referral, case management and improve outcomes among malnourished children. I appreciate the efforts of the technical group that has made contributions in the development of these National Guidelines and hopefully once they are operationalised it will contribute in achieving the Millennium Development Goals. Professor Dr.Rashid Jooma DG Health Ministry of Health FORWARD v National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women The National Guidelines for the Management of Acute Malnutrition among children under five, pregnant and lactating women have finally been approved by the Ministry of Health after an exhaustive process of technical review and consultations with relevant stakeholders. The process of development of these National Guidelines has taken a period of approximately two years and has had technical inputs from UNICEF, Save the Children US, WHO, Valid International, WFP, Pakistan Paediatric Association,