Foundation initiative on paediatric HIV/AIDS and prevention of mother-to-child transmission. It also provides RUTF to address malnourished patients’ nutritional needs. UNITAID allocated $4.4 million for purchase of RUTF in 2007 and raised it to $8 million in 2009 (MSF 2009). This mechanism provided a medium-term source of funding, though its future is unclear. • World Bank. The International Development Association (IDA) is the part of the World Bank that helps the world’s poorest countries. Established in 1960, IDA aims to reduce poverty by providing loans (called “credits”) and grants for programs that boost economic growth, reduce inequalities, and improve people’s living conditions. IDA commitments from 2003 to 2013 provided more than 117 million people with a basic package of health, nutrition, or reproductive health services. The World Bank has joined with more than 100 partner agencies and organizations to endorse Scaling Up Nutrition: A Framework for Action, which sets forth principles and priorities for action to address undernutrition and help countries reach the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. • National governments. There are very few examples of significant incorporation of SAM management into regular government budget programming. A number of governments purchase their own therapeutic milk for inpatient treatment and the routine drugs used for treatment. Recent UNICEF evaluations also show that a portion of capital and recurring costs are being met domestically in Chad, Ethiopia, Kenya, Nepal and Pakistan. However, 137 http://www.unitaid.eu/en/ UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 68 only in Malawi has RUTF been purchased directly by the Government. Where allocations are made to programming they tend to be at district or regional level. There is clearly a long way to go in terms of national government funding. • Other initiatives. A recent report recognizes the need to support greater domestic and external investment in direct nutrition interventions, including management of SAM (ACF/IDS 2012138). It offers some ideas meriting further investigation on alternative mechanisms to fund the full direct nutrition intervention package. These include guarantees or bonds such as the mechanism behind the ‘International finance facility for immunization’ and international levies and taxes like the UNITAID mechanism described above. ENN also conducted a review of financing arrangements for programmes that address acute malnutrition at scale through the CMAM approach as a follow-up to the issues debated at the Ethiopia CMAM conference.139 138 ACF, IDS, and Aid for Nutrition, 2012, ‘Using Innovative Financing to end Undernutrition,’ http://www.actionagainsthunger.org. uk/fileadmin/contribution/pdf/ACF_Aid%20for%20Nutrition_ Using%20Innovative%20Financing%20to%20End%20 Undernutrition.pdf 139