MANAGEMENT OF SEVERE ACUTE MALNUTRITION IN CHILDREN: WORKING TOWARDS RESULTS AT SCALE UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT Copyright: © United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), 2015 Cover photo: © UNICEF/NYHQ2012-0156/Quarmyne Permission is required to reproduce any part of this publication. This is a working document. Any comments or corrigenda to this version and requests to reproduce may be sent to nutrition@unicef.org UNICEF Programme Guidance Document Management of Severe Acute Malnutrition in children: Working towards results at scale © UNICEF/NYHQ2014-0610/Phelps iii FOREWORD Over 17 million children are affected by severe acute malnutrition (SAM) worldwide. Despite significant progress in recent years, approximately 2.9 million children accessed treatment in 65 countries in 2013 – only about 17 percent of the children needing treatment. Children with SAM are nine times more likely to die than well-nourished children. The management of severe acute malnutrition (SAM) is critical for child survival and is a key cost-effective component of the scaling up nutrition framework for addressing undernutrition. Governments face great challenges in building capacity and providing sufficient resources to prevent and treat acute malnutrition. While a significant number of acutely malnourished children live in countries where cyclical food insecurity and protracted crises further exacerbate their vulnerability, many more are in developing countries not affected by emergencies. The result is significant barriers to sustainable development in these nations. Climate change and increasing numbers of natural disasters are expected to further challenge efforts to protect the nutritional status of children and women. Scaling up access to critical nutrition interventions such as the treatment of SAM is paramount to achieve the global target, agreed to at the Sixty-Fifth World Health Assembly in 2012 (WHO, A65/11), of reducing and maintaining childhood wasting to less than 5 per cent. This underscores the urgent need to increase actions to strengthen country-level capacities to scale-up access to the treatment of SAM alongside preventive actions to protect the nutritional status of children and women. This Guidance Document provides practical assistance to Country Offices scaling up programmes to manage SAM in young children. It outlines a step-by-step process through which countries can analyse their current situation, identify barriers and bottlenecks through the MoRES approach, and plan action to scale-up treatment. In particular it addresses the challenge of supporting governments to accelerate and sustain scale-up, build national capacities and source reliable and sustained supplies and financing for managing SAM. This document also provides complementary background information, references to international