is little information on coverage of infants as they are not routinely included in assessments/surveys Standards Current Sphere indicators to correct malnutrition have their limitations with regard to infants under six months and require updating. • It is not clear whether Sphere exit indicators for children under five years include infants under six months or should be applied to these infants. • While a Sphere indicator is included on the importance of breastfeeding and psychosocial 204 IFE Core Group, 2007, ‘Infant feeding in emergencies’, Module 2. Version 1.1. Developed in collaboration with ENN, IBFAN, Terre des Hommes, UNICEF, UNHCR, WHO and WFP, for training, practice and reference. • ACF Assessment and Treatment of Malnutrition, 2002 • Infant Feeding in Emergencies Module 2199, Infant Feeding in Emergencies (IFE) Core Group 2007 • Strategies to improve SAM management in infants under six months include routine kangaroo care for all ‘complicated’ cases of malnourished infants under six months managed in inpatient settings,200 ‘breastfeeding corners’ (separate mother and baby areas where skilled breastfeeding support is available) and peer-to-peer support. • Options for outpatient based care in infants under six months should be considered/ designed as they offer the potential to reach more infants and manage them in the more appropriate and safer home environment. Evidence needs to be gathered on their practicality, effectiveness and safety. • Further research is needed to determine the efficacy of supplementary suckling, the best therapeutic milk to use. • No current breastfeeding assessment tool is sufficiently sensitive for community use and at the same time sufficiently specific for use in inpatient settings.201 New tools are needed. In the interim, UNICEF b-r-e-a-s-t,202 the UNICEF 2006 breastfeeding observation aid203 and the 199 Infant Feeding In Emergencies Module 2 http://www.ennonline. net/ourwork/capacitydevelopment/iycfemodule2 200 Kangaroo care is a technique where the infant is held in continuous skin-to-skin contact with an adult, usually the mother. It facilitates temperature regulation, reduces infant stress, and helps establish and maintain breastfeeding. 201 Fifteen were reviewed. 202 Body position, Responses, Emotional Bonding, Anatomy, Suckling, Time suckling. Also see WHO and UNICEF, ‘Breastfeeding counselling a training course. Participants Manual’, 1993, p.21. WHO/CDR/93.5 UNICEF/NUT/93.3. 203 UNICEF, 2000, ‘Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative’, Revised, Updated and Expanded for Integrated Care, Section 3.2, p.91. ANNEX F 99 support in SAM treatment, there is no clear guidance on how to measure this. • Staff: patient ratio recommended for children (1:10) may not be sufficient for infants