– may have TB and should be evaluated for TB and other conditions. The above new recommendations were published in June 2013215; HIV-infected children should also be assessed for other opportunistic infections such as thrush or cryptosporidiosis. On discharge it is important to ensure referral to appropriate support services for HIV though criteria for discharge from SAM treatment are the same for individuals, regardless of HIV status. 215 WHO, 2013, Consolidated guidelines on the use of antiretroviral drugs for treating and preventing HIV infection. http://www.who. int/hiv/pub/guidelines/keypopulations/en/ acute malnutrition and/or improve nutrition status of infected individuals. The 1999 WHO SAM guidelines did not recommend HIV testing of children with SAM. At that time, there was poor availability and little experience of treating children with antiretroviral drugs. Current evidence shows that antiretrovirals significantly increase survival of children with HIV, and access to these drugs is improving. The 2013 WHO recommendations for SAM management recommend that children with SAM in countries where HIV is common be routinely tested for the virus, and those who are positive should start on antiretroviral drugs as well as special foods and antibiotics to treat SAM. Specifically214: • all HIV-exposed infants and children (including those with SAM) should be tested for HIV status; • in settings where HIV infection is common (HIV prevalence more than 1%), children with SAM should be tested for HIV, in order to establish their HIV status and to determine their need for antiretroviral drug treatment; • ART should be initiated in all children infected with HIV below five years of age, regardless of WHO clinical stage or CD4 cell count. ART should be initiated in all HIV-infected children five years of age and older with CD4 cell count < 500cell/mm3, regardless of WHO clinical stage; ART should be initiated in all children infected with HIV with severe or advanced symptomatic disease regardless of age and CD4 cell count; 214 WHO, 2013, ‘Updates on the management of severe acute malnutrition in infants and young children,’, http://www.who.int/ nutrition/publications/guidelines/updates_management_SAM_ infantandchildren/en/ UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 102 Child’s hiV status Further testing SCENARIO-1 SCENARIO-2 iF hiV PositiVe: ASK: is the child receiving treatment for HIV? If child receiving treatment for HIV: • Follow nutrition protocols for SAM; • Ensure continuity of services for SAM; • Counsel on ART adherence If child not receiving treatment for HIV: • Provide cotrimoxazole as prophylaxis; • Ensure continuity of prophylaxis once child