the approach in a limited number of facilities in 12 ENN, 2012a, ‘Government experiences of scale-up of Communitybased Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM): A synthesis of lessons’, www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/CMAM-ConferenceSynthesis,-Addis,-ENN-2012.pdf. plan to mobilize additional partners or resources or to advocate at higher levels (see box 3). Agree on overall objectives, scale-up modalities, pace and targets The bottleneck analysis from page 8 -10 and the review on page 12-13 will have identified the most critical bottlenecks to coverage, and these become the priority bottlenecks to address. The causal analyses of these bottlenecks and solutions identified among partners form the basis of the scale-up plan which takes into account the country context. Experience shows that the quality of implementation of SAM management is directly related to the treatment coverage achieved. That is, a programme with good adherence to treatment protocols and has a well-planned and implemented component on community mobilization is more likely to achieve high coverage. Similarly, identification of cases of SAM early in the progress of the disease is important to achieve good treatment results. The challenge for countries, therefore, has been how Guidance point: Additional tools to facilitate planning for CMAM scale up • UNICEF Supply Division forecasting tool (2012). This will be replaced by an updated version in 2015 following revision of the supply component of the Nutridash tool. Please refer to the CMAM page on the Nutrition programme intranet page for the updated link in 2015. • FANTA CMAM costing calculation tool version 1.1 • Potential caseload and target calculations (annex A). Note: Supply Division tool online at intranet.unicef.org/ pd/pdc.nsf/e59d3405e8ee2cb9852567460068fae4/ f417f9d4a4d33d7a85257a7e004da073?Open Document. FANTA tool online at www.fantaproject.org/ tools/cmam-costing-tool. BOX 3 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 12 scale, and should be incorporated as a specific activity in the planning of the scale-up process in countries. External reviews have proven useful in identifying priority areas not detected during routine monitoring and should be conducted as part of the planning process and should include the following activities: • Collate data on programme performance and coverage, by reviewing routine monitoring data being produced by programmes (which will identify issues of completeness of reporting, performance and quality) • Assess coverage (treatment coverage and geographic coverage) and barriers to coverage so the programme design can be adjusted and measures put in place to remove barriers during scale-up • Facilitate sharing of experiences among stakeholders to assess the success of different programme design strategies and implementation modalities