MUAC <115mm Bilateral pitting oedema grade + or ++ Mother/caretaker refuses inpatient care despite advice* Other reasons for OTP enrolment Transfer from inpatient care or other OTP site Child returns to OTP after transfer to in-patient care after treatment or is referred to OTP after inpatient care or from another OTP site** Return after default Children who return after default continue their treatment if they still fulfil the enrolment criteria for OTP *If the mother/caretaker refuses inpatient care despite advice, keep child in OTP and monitor closely with follow up in the community with home visits until the child is stable. **Infants < 6 months who have completed treatment in inpatient care require monitoring in OTP. They do not receive RUTF. Mothers/caretakers of infants who refuse inpatient care despite advice require very careful monitoring at home. Enrolment procedure steps for health care providers at OTP STEP 1: Triage urgent cases ▪ Identify and treat urgent cases first. ▪ Offer water on arrival to all cases. Sugar water (10% sugar) should be given if sugar is available. Two teaspoons of sugar/100ml of water or 20 teaspoons in 1 litre of water. STEP 2: Anthropometric (MUAC, weight, and oedema) assessment ▪ Measure MUAC (Annex 1). ▪ Check for oedema (Annex 1). ▪ Measure weight. ▪ Calculate the target weight using the 15% weight gain chart. For Children admitted with oedema the baseline weight should be taken AFTER oedema has disappeared. (Annex 4). xv National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women ▪ If the child meets the criteria for enrolment, complete the admission section of the OTP card and assign the child a number and note this on the card (Annex 5). Continue with STEP 3 If the child does not meet the criteria for OTP, decide if the child requires medical treatment or is eligible for SFP. If child is moderately acutely malnourished (MUAC 115<125): Refer to the closest SFP (if SFP is available) and counsel the caretaker accordingly. Note weight and MUAC measurements and any treatment given on a referral slip to SFP (Annex 7). If SFP is not available refer to other ongoing community health and nutrition programs and health education and communication interventions (IEC). If child does not meet criteria but requires medical treatment: Refer to the outpatient department immediately for check-up and treatment. STEP 3: Medical Assessment A