key information about the child and basic information on their progress (weight, height, ration received). This is the caregiver’s record of the child’s progress. Where possible, the ration card can be attached to the MOH health passport or health card. NUMBERING SYSTEM ▪ A registration number is given to each child when the child is fist admitted to OTP or inpatient care or SFP. This number should follow the District Health Information System (DHIS). ▪ In emergency situations, it may not be possible to use the DHIS. The following four part numbering system can be used. 1) the province; 2) the district name or code; 3) the health facility name or code; 4) the child’s individual number; 5) the program component where the child was first admitted. Numbering system example NWFP/77/88/999/OTP NWFP: Province 77: The two digit code for the district 88: The two digit code for the health facility 999: Child’s individual allocated number OTP: The programme component where the child started treatment. ▪ ALL records concerning the child should follow the same numbering system. This includes OTP, SFP and inpatient cards, registration books, ration cards and transfer slips. Other relevant registration numbers (such as those given at other health facilities or hospitals, should also be recorded on the OTP cards. ▪ Returning defaulters retain the same number as they are still suffering from the same episode of malnutrition. Their treatment continues on the same monitoring card. ▪ Readmissions (meet admission criteria after being discharged cured) are given a new number and new card as they are now suffering from another episode of malnutrition and therefore require full treatment again. liv National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Monitoring and tracking children Different staff and in some cases different agencies may manage different programme components. It is essential that there is contact between the staff managing the various components to ensure children are admitted and transferred with adequate information. Transfers to inpatient care: The OTP card remains in the exit file at the OTP site/health facility under Transfers awaiting return. If a child is transferred from OTP to inpatient care and does not return to OTP after one or two weeks, community health workers and community volunteers should find out what has happened to the child. If a child dies while in inpatient care or defaults, this information should