and analysed and conducted a basic situation analysis 3. Developed a logical framework for CMAM 4. Developed an action plan for CMAM 5. Planned for transition and contingencies, and have a basic understanding of the CMAM surge approach • Ask for any questions and feedback on the module. • Ask participants to complete the evaluation form. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 134 MODULE EIGHT: MONITORING AND REPORTING ON CMAM Module Overview This module introduces participants to the basic principles of monitoring, reporting on and supervising community-based management of acute malnutrition (CMAM) services, with a focus on outpatient care. The module describes how individual infants and children are tracked and monitored in CMAM and how monitoring information and data are collected and reported for the service/programme as a whole. The purpose and function of support and supervisory visits are discussed. The importance of tracking infants and children between outpatient care and inpatient care, using referral slips, filling in the outpatient care treatment cards and using a simple numbering system has been previously covered. This module focuses on bringing it together through a simple monitoring system. This module includes practical exercises that will provide participants with the opportunity to practice compiling data and information. It also includes a half-day field practice at an outpatient care site to observe registration, tracking, monitoring, reporting and supervision procedures. Monitoring and reporting on CMAM combines outpatient care and inpatient care information, and performance indicators are based on these combined statistics. The monitoring system from each outpatient care and inpatient care site must be well standardized and coordinated to avoid double counting. Note: This module does not cover monitoring and reporting on the supply system (e.g., management and transportation of equipment, materials, drugs, therapeutic food) or on human resources. Learning Objectives Duration Handouts and Exercises 1. Describe the Principles of a Monitoring and Reporting System for CMAM 15 minutes 2. Describe How the Individual Infant or Child Is Tracked and Monitored in CMAM 45 minutes Handout 8.1: Monitoring the Individual Infant or Child in Outpatient Care Handout 8.2: Registration Numbering System Proposed for CMAM Handout 8.3 Monitoring and Reporting on CMAM Handout 8.4 Filing Outpatient Care Treatment Cards Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 135 3. Complete Site Tally Sheets and Site and District Reports; Interpret the Findings 1 hour Handout 8.3 Monitoring and Reporting on