up on the suggestion of establishing a fund to cover costs related to referral between inpatient care and outpatient care (e.g., transportation). Use Exercise 8.3 as an example of local problem-solving in discussions with other sites and villages. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 154 Module 8 Learning Objective 6: Explain the Purpose of Support and Supervision Visits and the Role of a Supervisor/Mentor TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 8.11 Support and Supervision for CMAM, Handout 8.12 Support and Supervision Checklist for Outpatient Care, Handout 8.13 Support and Supervision Checklist for Community Outreach and Exercise 8.4 Analysis of the Site Reports of Three Outpatient Care Sites and One Inpatient Care Site. WORKING GROUPS: DEFINING SUPERVISION AND SUPERVISOR RESPONSIBILITIES. Form working groups of five participants. Ask the groups to: 1. To define the term “supervision” 2. List the responsibilities of a supervisor (or supervisory team) 3. Determine who should be responsible for supervision of CMAM in their districts 4. Describe how supervisory visits are usually conducted in their districts and how supervision for CMAM fits into the existing supervision system Ask one group to share their answers in plenary and other groups to share only additional information. Refer participants to Handout 8.11 Support and Supervision for CMAM and ask them to read it quietly and to discuss in their groups any additional information they would add to the previous discussion. Discuss this information in plenary. Note that supervision is not limited to evaluating performance but is a great opportunity to mentor and provide technical support to the staff. GROUP DISCUSSION: SUPPORT AND SUPERVISION CHECKLISTS. In plenary, ask participants what kind of information they would expect to see on a support and supervision checklist for outpatient care. Remind them, one topic at a time, to think through staffing, admission procedures, medical and nutrition therapeutic care, follow-up for absentees and defaulters, inventory control and discharge procedures. Refer participants to Handout 8.12 Support and Supervision Checklist for Outpatient Care and review. Refer them to Handout 8.13 Support and Supervision Checklist for Community Outreach for future reference. WORKING GROUPS: ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED SITE REPORTS. With participants in the same working groups, distribute Exercise 8.4 Analysis of the Site Reports of Three Outpatient Care Sites and One Inpatient Care Site and have participants discuss the reports within their groups. Using the site and consolidated reports, ask participants to think through any