followup visits or are not responding well to treatment. Development of these strategies should be driven and informed by community inquiry. Strategies should also detail how cases are to progress from ‘active’ case finding, in which community agents seek out cases, to increasing levels of ‘passive’ case finding, in which carers are able to identify malnutrition in their children and know how to assess and refer them. Building the skills of community agents is as important as building understanding among communities about the programme and removing barriers to services (see Module 3: Community Outreach15 (FANTA et al. 2008). See box 7 for some successful components of community mobilization strategies. 15 FANTA, et al., 2008, ‘Community Outreach Training Manual. Module 3’, www.cmamforum.org/resource/973. be identified. All staff need to be vigilant and engaged in the identification of individuals with SAM. • Where treatment will be carried out and when: This will depend on space and capacities. Outpatient follow-up should be part of routine services and offered daily. However, it may be offered on specific days in some instances, such as where capacities are limited, as long as new cases are dealt with on the day of presentation. When scaling up it is important to consider current workloads of health facility staff involved in SAM treatment. • At the community level: For the community component, community-level inquiry will guide what to do based on social mobilization, identification of cases and follow-ups (see annex B). How to support the integration of SAM management into health systems is unclear and has raised concerns in the nutrition community. As a result, a global task force (composed of NGOs and UN agencies) has been formed to provide guidance on the integration and scale-up of the management of SAM into health systems. The task force is currently working on reviewing existing approaches and models, outcomes and recommendations will be disseminated through various platforms such as the CMAM forum (www. cmamforum.org). Decide who will be involved at each level of implementation The degree of decentralization of decision-making within the health system is important in the process of determining responsibilities. Where there is little decentralization, it may be possible to assign roles centrally based on the activities required, as long as the assignments are based on successful pilot experiences. Assignments must then be effectively communicated down to regions, districts and facilities. In some cases national guidelines are used to set