sips or by spoon every few minutes. Malnourished children are weak and quickly become exhausted, so they may not continue to take enough fluid voluntarily. If this occurs, the solution should be given by NG tube at the same rate. See ReSoMal protocol below Every 30 minutes assess • Clinical signs of improvement. • Clinical signs of over-hydration, especially signs of heart-failure (e.g. respiration rate). As the child gains weight during re-hydration there should be clinical improvement and the signs of dehydration should disappear. ReSoMal should be stopped when: • The respiratory and pulse rates increase; • The jugular veins become engorged; or • There is increasing oedema (e.g. puffy eyelids). If there is resolution of the signs of diarrhoea and weight gain stop ReSoMal and start the child on F75 After 2 hours make a thorough assessment: • If there is continued weight loss then increase rate of administration of ReSoMal by 10ml/kg/hour Reassess after one hour. • If there is no weight gain then increase the rate of ReSoMal by 5ml/kg/hour xc National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Reassess after one hour. • If there is weight gain and deterioration of the child’s condition, the diagnosis of dehydration was wrong. Stop ReSoMal and start the child on F75. Starting F75 When there is resolution of the signs of diarrhoea and weight gain stop ReSoMal and start the child on F75 F 75 can usually be introduced within 2-3 hours of starting re-hydration. ReSoMAL and F75 can be given alternately for a few hours if there is still some dehydration and continuing diarrhoea. Assessing target weight for rehydration with watery diarrhoea Weight loss is generally 2-5% of body weight Do not attempt to increase body weight by more than 5% in conscious children If there is weight gain of up to 5% of body weight with ReSoMal rehydration therapy, the dehydrated child will show dramatic improvement and treatment can continue with F 75. [ Treatment of shock from dehydration in the marasmic child If there is definite dehydration (a history of fluid losses, a change in the appearance of the eyes and the patient has all of the following: • Semi-conscious or unconscious. • Rapid weak pulse. • Cold hands and feet. The child should be treated with IV fluids. Use one of the following solutions (in order