Handout 4.19 Outpatient Care: Discharge Criteria for At-Risk Mothers and Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months as a reference, review the criteria for discharge from outpatient care, noting that: • A child is discharged from outpatient care when s/he has recovered from bilateral pitting oedema or low weight and, therefore, no longer has SAM. • The decision to discharge the child is based on his/her recovery from the initial SAM condition, consistently gaining weight and being clinically well and alert. • Discharge rules differ based on the criteria used to admit the child. Refer participants to Handout 4.20 Discharge Criteria and Exit Categories for CMAM, which deals with outpatient care discharge criteria and exit categories. PRACTICE: USING OUTPATIENT CARE TREATMENT CARDS TO DETERMINE ACTION NEEDED. Direct participants to Exercise 4.4 Partially Completed Outpatient Care Treatment Cards and to refer back to Handout 4.16 Outpatient Care Action Protocol. Ask them to use the outpatient care action protocol to determine what action is needed (discharge, follow-up home, referral) and to fill out the treatment card accordingly. In plenary, discuss what they decided to do and any issues with completing the outpatient care treatment cards. Discuss and fill in gaps. Exercise 4.4 Partially Completed Outpatient Care Treatment Cards (with answers) Example 1 (Jemma Banda): Child Is Ready for Discharge The pre-filled outpatient care treatment card (to the 12th week) shows that the child was admitted with a MUAC of 109 mm. The child has had sustained weight gain for the past two weeks and is clinically well. (Participants should determine that the child is ready for discharge and fill out the outpatient care treatment card accordingly). Example 2 (Adam Ali): Child Requires Follow-Up The pre-filled outpatient care treatment card (to the fourth week) shows that the child has not gained weight for the past two weeks and weighs 5 kg. At the next outpatient care follow-on session, the child still weighs 5 kg. (Participants should determine that the child requires a follow-up home visit and fill out the outpatient care treatment card accordingly, noting what action would be taken [inform the outreach worker]). Example 3 (Florence Phiri): Infant Under 6 Months Requires Referral to Inpatient Care The pre-filled C-MAMI outpatient care treatment card (to the third week) shows that the infant is not breastfeeding effectively, and not gaining weight. The infant was referred to inpatient care on the second Training Guide