structures and perceptions It is essential to understand and have information on community structures (formal and informal), key stakeholders (community leaders, religious leaders, traditional practitioners and community based organisations). It is important to know who makes key decisions and who is responsible for children as well as community attitudes to health and malnutrition. The following information is required: ▪ Local terms for malnutrition and perceived causes and common solutions ▪ Identification of key community leaders and other influential people ▪ Identification of existing structures and community based organizations/groups ▪ Formal and informal channels of communication that are known to be effective ▪ Attitudes and health seeking behaviours ▪ Existing nutrition and health interventions in the community Community dialogue It is important to directly engage the community from the outset. This can be done initially through meetings with community and religious leaders. Other key community members should also be included. Mothers of young children should be included so that there is full representation of all those concerned with the health of young children. ▪ Engage in discussion with the community to talk about the problem of malnutrition, causes and possible solutions ▪ Discuss the programme and how it works ▪ Agree on relevant groups, organisations, structures to be involved in the programme. This may include the recruitment of volunteers to help with case finding and follow up ▪ Develop clear roles and responsibilities Train community providers in core functions Community providers should be trained to identify, refer and follow up malnourished children. Training can be done in one or two days. Frequent refresher training will be required. Training should include: ▪ Program aim and target population ▪ Basic information on the causes, identification and treatment of malnutrition ▪ Practice in identification of oedema and wasting (use of MUAC tape) ▪ Case finding ▪ Case referral ▪ Health and nutrition education (prevention) Case finding and referral In order to reach as many malnourished children as possible, community providers must actively identify children who need care and refer them for treatment. Children can be screened through; ▪ House to house visits ▪ Screening at health facilities and outreach programs ▪ Screening at community meetings, health campaigns in the community and at other opportunities ▪ Growth monitoring sessions, health facilities, paediatric wards It is important to include mothers and caretakers of children in the programme. Mothers/caretakers who have seen their malnourished children recover are