any danger sign, including infant feeding difficulties) • Whether children require follow-up visits at home between outpatient care follow-on sessions (e.g., weight loss, deteriorating condition, not eating enough RUTF, absent from outpatient care follow-on session), which may be done by an outreach worker (e.g., community health worker [CHW], volunteer) In plenary, ask participants to name danger signs, feeding difficulties, and medical complications that would require referral to inpatient care. Write them on the flip chart. Then ask what medical complications or symptoms might require a follow-up home visit. Refer participants to Handout 4.16 Outpatient Care Action Protocol for Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months and compare responses on the flip chart to those in the second column of the action protocol. Describe symptoms that would require either referral or follow-up visits (e.g., bilateral pitting oedema +++, weight loss for two consecutive weeks) and ask what action is dictated by the protocol: referral to inpatient care or follow-up home visits. Continue asking questions until participants seem comfortable using the action protocol. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: PROCEDURES FOR REFERRING PATIENTS. Explain to participants the inpatient care referral system, use of referral slips, referral to tertiary care and key points related to referring for follow-up home visits. Refer participants to Handout 4.17 Referral to Inpatient Care or Follow-Up Home Visits for Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months. PRACTICE: IDENTIFYING AND REFERRING CHILDREN. Direct participants to Exercise 4.3 Identifying Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months Who May Need Referral to Inpatient Care or Follow-Up Home Visits. Have participants form groups of three or four and ask them to read the descriptions of the children and determine what action to take: referral, follow-up home visit or continuation in outpatient care (see Exercise 4.3 answers below). Ask participants to refer to Handout 4.16 Outpatient Care Action Protocol for Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months. Have groups present and explain their answers. Distribute Handout 4.18 Referral Slip for Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months and demonstrate how to fill it out using a sample child from Exercise 4.3 who required inpatient care. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 80 Exercise 4.3 Identifying Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months Who May Need Referral to Inpatient Care or Follow-Up Home Visits (with answers) Child A Question: Child A is 2 years old, has a