actions in preparing for community mobilisation and training: • Establish reliable communications between service providers, community, mothers, and families. • Assist communities with selection of outreach workers where necessary. • Train outreach workers (e.g., CHWs, volunteers) to perform case-finding. • Train mothers and family members to regularly screen their children for acute malnutrition • Engage civil society partners. For each of the key actions, ask participants why the action is important using the content in column two (“Why?”) of Handout 3.10 as a guide for the discussion. Then describe the pointers in column three (“How?”). Answer any questions. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTING A MASS TRAINING CAMPAIGN. Refer participants to Handout 3.11 Planning and Implementing a Mass Training Campaign for Mothers and Family Members. Outline the six steps used to prepare for and implement mass training campaigns for mothers and family members: • Determining the coverage area • Determining human resources needed for a mass training campaign • Determining the budget • Determining what to prepare for the trainers • Developing a training session • Following up with the mothers For each step, review the essential activities that should be undertaken. Use Handout 3.11 as a guide for the discussion. Answer any questions. WORKING GROUPS: USING MOBILISATION AND TRAINING TO INCORPORATE BEHAVIOUR CHANGE COMMUNICATION (BCC) IN CMAM SERVICES. Explain to participants that through exploring the causal factors behind the prevalence of acute malnutrition, CMAM staff may be able to find ways to introduce or reinforce preventive messages into CMAM routines. Ask participants to form working groups of three or four and to discuss how efforts in community mobilisation and training can be expanded upon to: identify relevant behaviour change messages; access information, education and communication (IEC) and BCC materials; and create a mechanism for their dissemination. Step One: Community Assessment Step Two: Formulation of Community Outreach Strategy Step Three: Development of Messages and Materials >>Step Four: Community Mobilisation and Training Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 56 Examples include: • Once CMAM is under way, CMAM health care providers should talk with outpatient care providers and outreach workers to learn what the major causal factors appear to be based on admissions to the outpatient care to date. • The district health management team, implementing agencies operating in the area, and local health facilities are likely to have access to a range of BCC and IEC