every week (or two weeks) for medical check-ups, to be weighed to see that the child is getting better and to get the RUTF rations. ▪ Advise the caretaker to return to the OTP clinic immediately if the child refuses to eat RUTF or becomes ill. ▪ Give medicines according to routine drug protocol (Annex 9). See medical treatment section. ▪ Check immunisation status. If required immunisations have not been given, refer the child for immediate immunisation. ▪ Provide RUTF ration by weight using the RUTF protocol (Annex 10). Double the amount of RUTF provided if your OTP is operating every two weeks or there are planned absences. ▪ Fill out the Ration Card and give it to the caretaker. She/he should bring the card back every week or two weeks (Annex 11). ▪ Tell the caretaker when she/he should come back for the next OTP visit (date and time). Make it clear that the child should be brought back to the health facility at any time if the child’s conditions deteriorate. ▪ Complete the OTP card and keep in your file under “Children Enrolled in OTP.” NUTRITION TREATMENT USING RUTF IN OTP xvii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Nutritional treatment in OTP is given through ready to use therapeutic food (RUTF). RUTF is a prepackaged energy and nutrient dense paste which is specifically designed for the rehabilitation of SAM. RUTF contains a specific micronutrient formula, which is designed for the effective rehabilitation of severely malnourished children. It is made to the same formulation as F100 and can therefore be used as a replacement for F100. 1 RUTF provides approximately 545 Kcal per 100g. The amount of RUTF given to a child is based on weight (175 200 kcal/kg/day). A simple reference chart is used to determine how much RUTF to give each day and per week (Annex 10). RUTF may be imported or locally produced. RUTF contains all of the energy and nutrients to meet the nutritional needs of the child and does not require any cooking or preparation. RUTF does not contain water and cannot be contaminated. For these reasons RUTF can be successfully and safely used at home for the treatment of SAM. RUTF used in OTP must be approved by the Ministry of Health and meet national standards. Key information messages are given to