operate every month on a designated day. SFP can also be held every two weeks. SFP must be held every two weeks when premix is used (a mix of dry blended food and oil) because the premix will go rancid after two weeks. Basic equipment and supplies for SFP Basic equipment Basic supplies ▪ Weighing scales ▪ MUAC tapes ▪ Clean water for drinking (jug and cups) ▪ Water and soap for hand-washing ▪ SFP Ration cards ▪ Registration book for children 6 months to 5 years ▪ Registration book for pregnant and lactating women ▪ Transfer slip to OTP ▪ Key messages for SFP ▪ Essential medicines as required in the routine medical protocol for SFP ▪ Water, cup and spoon to give medicines ▪ Supplementary ration Enrolment in SFP WHO should be enrolled in SFP? ▪ Moderately acutely malnourished children aged 6-59 months with appetite (ability to eat) and without medical complications who meet the enrolment criteria. ▪ Acutely malnourished pregnant women in the second or third trimester. ▪ Acutely malnourished lactating women whose child is less than 6 months old. ▪ Children discharged from OTP. xlv National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Others reasons for SFP enrolment: ▪ Children discharged from OTP: Children who have completed treatment in OTP should be enrolled in SFP. ▪ Readmission: Children who have been discharged from SFP and then meet the criteria for enrolment again are counted as new enrolees. ▪ Return after default: Children who return after defaulting (absent more than one visit if SFP is every month or two visits if SFP is every two weeks). Table 9: Enrolment in SFP Category Criteria Children 6-59 months* MUAC = 110mm< 125mm (Yellow) Pregnant (2nd or 3rd trimester) and lactating women (whose child is less than 6 months old) MUAC < 210mm Other reasons for SFP enrolment Discharged from OTP Severely acutely malnourished child is transferred to SFP after completion of treatment in OTP Readmission Children or pregnant or lactating women previously discharged from SFP but meet SFP admission criteria again Return after default Children or pregnant or lactating women who return after default (absent more than one visit if SFP is every month or more than 2 visits if SFP is every two weeks) xlvi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant