Annex 25: Referral slip from SFP to OTP Annex 27: SFP routine medicines Screening and referral to SFP Active case finding of acutely malnourished children should take place at community level. Community health workers and community volunteers will carry out active case and will identify and refer acutely malnourished children to the health facility. Screening in the community is done using the same criteria as admission criteria a supplementary feeding programme. The referral criteria from the community will xliv National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women be MUAC <125mm. Pregnant and lactating women should be referred from the community and admitted with MUAC <210mm. Children and women should be checked again at the health facility or SFP site to ensure the accuracy of the referral. If referrals are consistently inaccurate, action should be taken to ensure the community health worker/volunteer understands the admission criteria and measuring technique. Those eligible to be enrolled in the SFP may arrive through different mechanisms: ▪ Referrals by community health workers and volunteers after screening for acute malnutrition using MUAC and checking for oedema. The LHW or volunteer will give the mother/caretaker a referral slip with the MUAC status marked and ask the caretaker to take the child to the health facility. ▪ Referrals by health care providers at the health facility level or from other health and nutrition programmes, such as a growth monitoring, paediatric ward, inpatient care and supplementary feeding programmes. ▪ Self-referral – child is brought to health facility directly by caretaker without referral from community health workers or volunteers. ▪ Severely acutely malnourished children that have successfully completed treatment in OTP and moderately malnourished children with complications that have successfully completed treatment in in-patient care will be referred to SFP for follow-up. Basic requirements for SFP WHO is qualified to run SFP: SFP is operated by a nurse or LHV. WHERE: SFP can be operated anywhere. It should be near an OTP site but should be kept separate from the OTP to avoid crowding of the OTP. WHEN: SFP sessions should operate every month on a designated day. SFP can also be held every two weeks. SFP must be held every two weeks when premix is used (a mix of dry blended food and oil) because the premix will go rancid after two weeks. Basic equipment and supplies for SFP Basic