the development of annual action plans. Monitoring Results for Equity System (MoRES) and District Health System Strengthening (DHSS) tools and guidance can be used for bottleneck analysis, focusing on management of SAM in isolation or as part of a wider health or nutrition package. MoRES can be implemented through a DHSS approach for many of the young child survival and development interventions that are delivered through the health system using different delivery platforms (facility-based, outreach and community-based). (See page 64 and annex E for more on these tools.) These tools can be used to systematically identify bottlenecks that impede scaling up management of SAM at the community, district and national levels, and to periodically track progress towards alleviating the bottlenecks. The table of benchmarks in annex B can also be used to structure this type of analysis. Even where a formal MoRES approach is not undertaken, the same guiding principles can be used to provide a pathway for actions. Carry out determinant analysis The determinant analysis focuses on the key determinants (or a factor that affects the nature or outcome of coverage) of coverage for the management of SAM, and aims to identify the strategies to be implemented to improve coverage and quality. The status of each determinant is analysed and enabling factors perspective on managing SAM scale-up than those at the national level. The exercise should include an initial mapping of the capacity and comparative advantage of different agencies and institutions in relation to treatment of acute malnutrition. Where relevant, the mapping should involve a consideration of the ability of NGOs to support the capacity development of government officials in more central and strategic ways, such as working with national institutions to develop in-service training or build national capacity for coverage assessments. It may be helpful to hold additional preparatory meetings with partners identified during the mapping prior to the larger consultation meeting with all stakeholders to discuss the aims of the consultation and encourage participation, particularly from partners who previously have had little involvement in management of SAM. Map sources of data It is important to map sources of data on implementing management of SAM (see box 2). This information will inform initial consultations and bottleneck analysis. Plans to track down additional data identified as essential for use during bottleneck analysis should also be made at this stage. Consult with stakeholders Next, a stakeholder meeting should be held