least eight other countries, which did not submit data to the NutriDash, but which have SAM programmes incountry (known from past data collection exercises). 79 The figure is only an approximation and underestimates the number of SAM cases admitted, as 10 countries did not supply caseloads, six provided estimates only and the majority of the others gave estimates based on less than 50% reporting. SAM MANAGEMENT: INFORMATION FOR PROGRAMMING 53 Some gaps remain, such as advocacy tools to facilitate dialogue with national stakeholders to incorporate SAM management into wider development policies and additional tools to facilitate resource mobilization. Training materials In 2006, UNICEF collaborated in the development of global training materials for implementation of community-based programmes for management of SAM (FANTA/ Valid/UNICEF/Concern 200888). This resource for country-level trainings focuses on practical experience in implementing protocols with minimal classroom time. The training materials highlight the need for follow-up and mentoring of trainees, which has proved to be effective in consolidating skills. UNICEF has also played a central role in developing the GNC Harmonized Training Package89 and the UNICEF Nutrition in 88 FANTA, Valid, UNICEF, Concern; Training Guide for Community Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) http://www. fantaproject.org/focus-areas/nutrition-emergencies-mam/cmamtraining. 89 An initiative of the GNC and Nutrition Works to provide a standard package of resources for training on nutrition in emergencies. IASC, Global Nutrition Cluster, and Nutrition Works, 2011, ‘Standing Committee on Nutrition (SCN) Harmonized Training Package’, http:// www.unscn.org/en/gnc_htp/howto-htp.php#howtousehtp. (ENN) website84, the FANTA II website85 and the CMAM forum86. Increasingly, countries are also attempting to evaluate treatment coverage at regional and national levels using newly available coverage assessment techniques (see annex C). Regional and global resources to support scale-up Various tools and resources have been developed over the last few years to provide policy, technical and implementation guidance on CMAM. These include tools for advocacy (United Nations joint statements), planning (costing and supply forecasting tools, integration framework), implementation (technical guidelines, and training materials) and monitoring (simplified reporting format, coverage tools, Minimum Reporting Package)87. An annotated list with links to each of the tools and materials is given in annex E. 84 http://www.ennonline.net/resources. 85 http://www.fantaproject.org/focus-areas/nutrition-emergenciesmam. 86 http://www.cmamforum.org. 87 The Minimum Reporting Package has been developed for supplementary feeding programmes but includes a component for management of SAM appropriate for use in emergency NGO implemented programmes. 40,000 35,000 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 – 60 50 40 30 20 10 – Ordering countries Quantity