of access for government and international staff. • Periodic bimonthly spot quality checks are undertaken by government and/or international agency staff. These may be called for where donors have questioned the reliability of third-party monitoring. • Community-level informants report on quality of implementation as a crosscheck against information gathered during supervision. BOX 27 GOOD PRACTICES FOR ADDRESSING BOTTLENEKCS IN SCALING UP 41 they should be linked to the MoH database to ensure sustainability and ownership by the MoH/ government. Ownership of this data will further support advocacy and increase commitment to management of SAM. Some experience indicates that compromises are possible to allow ‘ownership’ of data by the health system. This avoids reliance on the health management information systems and maintains the level of monitoring desired by regional and national government managers so they can direct effective programme performance. Examples include: • Integration of ‘systems’ in which data on management of SAM is collected by health teams (health staff or nutrition officers) at the district level and then compiled with the data coming from health information managers (the health management information systems) at the regional or national level • Collection of reports at district level by health teams, which pass them into a parallel system managed by the nutrition body within the MoH, while feeding limited data into the health management information systems. Monitoring coverage As mentioned earlier, new methods allow direct measurement of data on treatment coverage and major barriers to coverage to be incorporated periodically into monitoring systems at the district, regional and national level. Some of the tools included in these methods can be used as routine indicators of treatment coverage, to complement or replace indirect estimates of treatment coverage and bottleneck analysis. These tools for direct estimation of treatment coverage include admissions curves to assess seasonal patterns of admissions and identify anomalies; tallies of admission MUACs to assess whether early presentation is occurring; and mapping patterns of defaulters (see annex C, Direct Coverage Assessment Methods). • Harmonization of inpatient and outpatient reports • Inclusion only of information that will be used for assessment and action at the district, regional or national level • Clear systems for analysis, action and feedback Addressing comprehensiveness and timeliness Complete and timely reporting is an issue in many countries, particularly as programmes expand and data need to reach the national level. Some successful measures adopted include: • Directives from senior health