also conducted a review of financing arrangements for programmes that address acute malnutrition at scale through the CMAM approach as a follow-up to the issues debated at the Ethiopia CMAM conference.139 138 ACF, IDS, and Aid for Nutrition, 2012, ‘Using Innovative Financing to end Undernutrition,’ http://www.actionagainsthunger.org. uk/fileadmin/contribution/pdf/ACF_Aid%20for%20Nutrition_ Using%20Innovative%20Financing%20to%20End%20 Undernutrition.pdf 139 Shoham, J et al. 2013. Managing acute malnutrition at scale : A review of donor and government financing arrangements. ODI Network Paper 75. http://www.odihpn.org/hpn-resources/networkpapers/managing-acute-malnutrition-at-scale-a-review-of-donorand-government-financing-arrangements ANNEX A 69 For programme planning purposes, the estimated annual burden of SAM at national and sub-national level among children 6-59 months can be calculated based on the latest SAM prevalence estimates, an incidence correction factor and population figures. Calculation of estimated SAM burden is critical, because it informs the target caseload and indirect coverage calculation. However, calculation of SAM burden should be understood as a rough estimate and such figures should be interpreted with caution. Furthermore, it is essential that the process for calculating the burden figure, and target caseload, is undertaken in consultation with key stakeholders responsible for delivering the programme (e.g. Government, UNICEF, nutrition cluster or sector partners etc.) and that consensus is reached on the final figures to be used. This annex is structured in three sections: A1 outlines a process for estimating SAM burden. Responding to UNICEF staff feedback from the mapping of 2012 SAM programming, the concept of national and target area SAM burden is introduced to generate more appropriate burden estimates when the programme is not aiming for national coverage A2 outlines options for defining the target number of beneficiaries for SAM programme in relation to the estimated SAM burden A3 describes how to indirectly estimate and communicate coverage and programme performance, in particular in how to use different estimates of coverage to better reflect the status of the programme vis-a-vis the need. Indirectly estimating burden (need), targets and coverage ANNEX A Death Recovery Prevalent cases FIGURE 6 Graphic definition of prevalent cases New (incident) cases UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 70 A1. Estimating SAM burden (prevalent cases) The number of individuals affected by SAM changes throughout the year. The total number of current cases (prevalent cases) will increase by the number of new (incident) cases, and will decrease by the number of individuals that either recover or die. The total annual SAM burden estimate aims to capture the total number of cases at one point in time (prevalent cases)