Help to tease out insights from the group presentations. Information is triangulated. • Ask participants to discuss their experiences with the interviews. Offer an assessment based on observation of the interviews. • Lead participants through a process of revision of the interview guides, stressing that the discipline of daily reflection and revision based on emerging insights is an important part of the assessment. • Emphasise to participants that insights based on initial interviews must remain tentative. The normal practice is to conduct at least one such investigation for each outpatient care site. • Develop a short list of emerging insights to guide discussion of strategy. • Refer to Handout 3.13 Team Checklist for Community Outreach Field Visit. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 61 Module 3 FIELD VISIT ACTIVITY 3: DEVELOP A HANDBILL Working Groups: Develop a Handbill • Form five working groups. • Using Handout 3.8 Reference: Handbill Messages as an example, have each group develop a handbill, working through several stages, including: discussing and agreeing on the main messages; summarising these in bullet points; writing the text out in full sentences and agreeing on the wording; and refining text to the simplest language possible for a “final” draft. • If time allows, trainers can arrange for translators (ideally two per group) to translate the handbill into the language of local CMAM users. The two translators should do this independently, compare their versions and discuss differences with the participants to select the most accurate rendering. • Ask groups to share their handbills. • Discuss in plenary. Module 3 FIELD VISIT ACTIVITY 4: PRACTICE DEVELOPING A COMMUNITY OUTREACH STRATEGY AND AN ACTION PLAN Group Discussion: Community Outreach Strategy and Action Plan • Using Handout 3.4 Community Outreach: From Assessment to Strategy as a model, help participants review insights from the interviews to draw conclusions about strategy. Emphasize that the conclusions must be practical and actionable. • Structure the discussion by asking participants to consider at least the following: the appropriate duration of outreach, whether or how long to rely on active case-finding and which model to use, the pros and cons of using existing networks of volunteers or extension workers, and the involvement of civil society and other partners outside the official health sector. If time allows, trainers may wish to address these strategic questions in smaller groups and compare the groups’ conclusions. • Summarise