adults learn. 2. Safety in environment and process: Make people feel comfortable about the possibility of making mistakes. Adults are more receptive to learning when they are both physically and psychologically comfortable. • Physical surroundings (e.g., temperature, ventilation, overcrowding, light) can affect learning. • Learning is best done when there are no distractions. 3. Respect: Appreciate learners’ contributions and life experience. Adults learn best when their experience is acknowledged and when new information builds on their past knowledge and experience (see “Relevance to previous experience” below). 4. Affirmation: Learners need to receive praise for even small attempts. They need to be sure they are correctly recalling or using information they have learned. 5. Sequence and reinforcement: Start with the easiest ideas or skills and build on them. Introduce the most important ones first. Reinforce key ideas and skills repeatedly. People learn faster when information or skills are presented in a structured way. 6. Practice: Allow learners to practice first in a safe place and then in a real setting. 7. Ideas, feelings, and actions: Learning takes place through thinking, feeling, and doing and is most effective when it involves all three. 8. 20/40/80 rule: We remember 20 percent of what we hear, 40 percent of what we hear and see, and 80 percent of what we hear, see, and do. Learners remember more when visuals are used to support the verbal presentation, and they remember best when they practice the new skill. 9. Relevance to previous experience: People learn faster when new information or skills are related to what they already know or can do. • Immediate relevance: People learn best when they can apply to the new topic things that they have learned in life or on the job. • Future relevance: People generally learn faster when they recognise that what they are learning will be useful in the future. 10. Teamwork: Encourage people to learn from one another and solve problems together. This makes learning easier to apply to real life. 11. Engagement: Involve learners’ emotions and intellect. Adults prefer to be active participants in learning rather than passive recipients of knowledge. People learn faster when they actively process information, solve problems, or practice skills. 12. Accountability: Ensure that learners understand and know how to put what they have learned into practice. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 7 13. Motivation: People learn