coverage using Bayesian techniques. Likelihood survey is conducted as part of this stage. This survey utilises a systematic spatial sample as with all the other coverage survey methods. Stage 3 of SQUEAC is optional and is done if the reporting of an overall coverage estimate is a key information requirement in addition to the rich information on barriers and boosters to coverage already gained from Stages 1 and 2. Results SQUEAC provides the following results: • Mapping of coverage using small area surveys through a risk mapping approach • Estimation of coverage using Bayesian techniques • Concept map of barriers and boosters to coverage Figure 10 shows the relations between factors influencing coverage and effectiveness in an MoHdelivered CMAM programme in Sierra Leone. Figure 11 shows coverage mapping through a risk mapping approach. Simplified Lot Quality Assurance Sampling Evaluation of Access and Coverage (SLEAC) SLEAC is a rapid low-resource survey method that classifies coverage at the service delivery unit (SDU) level such as the district. A SLEAC survey identifies the category of coverage (e.g., low coverage, moderate coverage or high coverage) that describes leads to High levels of defaulting Poor outcomes Negative opinions Weak community mobilization Late admission Continued RUTF stock-outs Lack of program awareness Long stay or inpatient care creates creates leads to leads to leads to leads to leads to leads to associated with results in Vicious cycle driving/keeping coverage down Staff contempt Lack of proximity leads to Relations between factors influencing coverage and effectiveness produced by a SQUEAC assessment FIGURE 10 Barriers to service access and uptake in a CMAM programme reported by carers of non-covered cases produced using the CSAS method Interface problems Inappropriately discharged Other reasons Relapse or default (not returned) Lack of program information OTP site too far away Fear of Rejection Number of non-covered cases 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 Child not recognized as “malnourished” UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 84 Map of per-district coverage produced by the SLEAC method FIGURE 12 the coverage of the service delivery unit being assessed. The advantage of this approach is that relatively small sample sizes (e.g., n ≤ 40) are required in order to make an accurate and reliable classification. SLEAC can also estimate coverage over several service delivery units, hence it is ideal for coverage survey of wide areas. Coverage is still classified for individual service delivery units. Then, data from individual