income generating activities should be encouraged. 6. Transport costs are a major contributor to food prices where traders consider transport costs as higher as or much higher than during the previous year. The main problems traders face in running their business smoothly include the lack of own capital, lack of credit or credit that is too expensive, lack of transportation means, poor infrastructure or transport costs are too high among others. Food Utilisation/Nutrition 1. Water, sanitation and purification practices remain rather poor, with a low percentage of the respondents mentioning the use of water purification. The use of inappropriate practices in using toilet facilities is discouraging as compared to other provinces in the country. Thus, increased access to improved water sources and sanitation facilities is required. 2. We recommend increased nutrition awareness for all and, in particular, for women and adolescent girls with an emphasis on hygiene, proper diet. Increased education on good feeding practices for the family members is recommended, particularly for children under five, pregnant and lactating women the elderly and those whose health is vulnerable. 3. Merged Areas must prioritize multi-sectoral nutrition interventions to avert the 48% emergency level stunting trends (NNS 2019), which is the highest at the national level and exceeds WHO’s critical thresholds (Scale-up KP-SPRING to NMDs). 4. Continue Emergency CMAM based Nutrition interventions to tackle the 23% acute malnutrition rate in Merged Areas, by scaling up of “TSFP, OTP and SC” services through Donors as well ADP funds. (No Nutrition support under AIP) 5. Improve complementary feeding after 6 months of age through improved diets and inexpensive fortified foods produced locally. 6. Ensure dietary diversity at household level, adopting healthy and balanced diet including whole grains, vegetables, fruits, milk and milk products, meat, fish, pulses, eggs; and following dietary guidelines and My Plate recommendations. Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 74 7. Expand nutrition activities at the grass roots level through public awareness campaigns and specific health interventions. Enhance investment in the nutrition sector through public private partnerships in food preservation, processing, value addition and services. 8. Expand programmes to treat very high acute malnutrition rates through expanded Communitybased Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM). 9. Prevent stunting by applying the life cycle approach including education of adolescent girls, programmes for pregnant and lactating women such as the 1000 Days Approach, in order to improve breastfeeding practices