Make sure the tape has the proper tension (arrow 7) and is not too tight or too loose (arrows 8 and 9). Repeat any step as necessary. 5. When the tape is in the correct position on the arm with correct tension, read and call out the measurement to the nearest 0.1cm (arrow 10). 6. Immediately record the measurement. lxi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Using a MUAC tape lxii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Measuring weight Children are weighed by using a 25 kg hanging sprint scale graduated by 0.100 kg. Do not forget to re-adjust the scale to zero with the empty weighing pants hanging before each weighing Place the child undressed in the pants. When the child is steady, record, record the measurement to the nearest 100 grams. The frame of the scale should be at eye level. When it is not possible to undress the child, the weight of the clothes has to be deducted from the measurement. Each day, the scales must be checked by using a known weight in order to guarantee their good functioning lxiii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Taking height and length For children less than 85 cm, the measuring board is placed on the ground. The child is placed, lying along the middle of the board. The assistant holds the sides of the child’s head and positions the head until it firmly touches the fixed headboard with the hair compressed. The measurer places his hands on the child’s legs, gently stretches the child and then keeps one hand on the thighs to prevent flexion. While positioning the child’s legs, the sliding foot’ plate is pushed firmly against the bottom of the child’s feet. To read the measure, the foot’ plate must be perpendicular to the axis of the board. The height is read to the nearest 0.1 centimetre. lxiv National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women For children more than 85 cm, the measuring board is fixed upright where the ground is level. The child stands, upright in the middle, against the measuring board. The child’s head, shoulders, buttocks, knees, heels are held against