total number of current cases (prevalent cases) will increase by the number of new (incident) cases, and will decrease by the number of individuals that either recover or die. The total annual SAM burden estimate aims to capture the total number of cases at one point in time (prevalent cases) and the total number of new (incident cases) that arise during the year. Estimating prevalence of SAM The proportion of malnourished children 6–59 months in a population at a given time is estimated through anthropometric population based surveys (SMART, MICS, DHS). Caseload estimates will vary depending on which nutritional index (weight-for-height or MUAC, with or without oedema) is used in generating the SAM prevalence. It is also important to be aware that prevalence within a population is likely to fluctuate over the year according to the season (lean or harvest). It is important that the prevalence used for the calculation of SAM burden is neither disproportionally high nor low and therefore the recommendation is to take an average of low and high season prevalence for the purposes of SAM burden calculation. Estimating annual incidence of SAM The use of prevalence allows estimation of the number of children with SAM at a given time by taking into account population size and proportion of children 6–59 months. Incidence refers to the proportion of new cases of SAM out of the total population of children under five that occur over a specific time period. There is often no country level data on incidence as it cannot be collected during cross sectional surveys. As a result, an incidence correction factor is needed to estimate the total cases occurring over the period of a year. Whether a standard incidence correction factor is appropriate and what that value might be is still under debate. Some studies have tried to estimate incidence by looking at programme admissions over a year for CMAM programmes which maintained a high coverage, by reanalysing longitudinal studies that monitored episodes of malnutrition over time and by assessing the duration of untreated SAM (Garenne et al. 2009140; Isanaka et al. 2011141). An estimate of incidence may be obtained with the calculation below, but with two important caveats: • The mean duration of a SAM episode is not easy to estimate and may vary from setting to setting. Available estimates vary widely. • The method relies on an assumption of constant incidence. This assumption