on the module. Ask the following review questions: • How are individual infants and children tracked in a CMAM service? • What information is collected on site tally sheets and site and district reports? • What indicators are used to determine service performance? • What are the roles and responsibilities of supervisors in outpatient care? • Discuss and clarify. • Let participants know that they will have an opportunity to observe procedures and discuss them with staff during the field visit. • Ask participants to complete the module evaluation form. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 159 MODULE 8 MONITORING AND REPORTING ON CMAM: OUTPATIENT CARE FIELD PRACTICE FOR HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS Overview • A maximum of five participants should be at each outpatient care site on a given day. Coordinate with as many outpatient care sites as necessary to keep the number of participants at five or fewer. • This site visit is best conducted on one of the final days of the training, after observing and practicing outpatient care activities at a health facility. Participants must be knowledgeable in all aspects of outpatient care. • The supervision checklist is long so it can be broken into several sections, allowing different participants to “supervise” different activities during outpatient care. • Pair participants with someone who speaks the local language. Learning Objectives Handouts to Bring to the Outpatient Care Field Practice Observe and Help the Outpatient Care Site Team Complete Site Tally Sheets from the Individual Outpatient Care Treatment Cards Handout 8.3 Monitoring and Reporting on CMAM Handout 8.8 CMAM Indicators Handout 8.12 Support and Supervision Checklist for Outpatient Care Review a Site Tally Sheet and the Previous Month’s Site Report and Discuss With Staff How to Use and Interpret Data Review the System for Recording RUTF Distribution and Stock Levels Preparation for the Outpatient Care Field Practice • Discuss and review the procedures and steps that participants will undertake at the outpatient care sites: Observe and help the outpatient site team complete site tally sheets from the individual outpatient care treatment cards Calculate the number of clients enrolled in CMAM and double-check it against the number of cards Review a completed site tally sheet and the previous month’s site report and discuss what they reveal about the service/programme (e.g., recoveries, defaults, deaths, anything surprising) • Bring copies of Handout 8.12 Support and Supervision Checklist