the enabling environment in terms of government budgeting processes. It will also allow for future plans based on agreed resource mobilization strategies. (See page 31 for more on addressing financing bottlenecks.) Step 5. Develop a monitoring and evaluation plan Identify areas needing monitoring As part of developing the scale-up plan, it is important to identify the key areas and/or bottlenecks that need to be monitored and establish systems to allow routine capture of the data in a way that facilitates analysis and use of the data collected. Developing the framework of benchmarks and indicators used for the bottleneck analysis can serve as the basis for this activity (see annex B and the framework for integration of management of SAM into national health systems). The aim is to progressively remove the identified bottlenecks to scale-up effective coverage. The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) plan should identify, for each determinant indicator in the framework, the means (e.g., routine programme monitoring data, programme reviews, meeting reports, supervision reports, coverage assessments, external evaluations), frequency and responsibility for collecting and compiling data appropriate to the country context (see table 2). Data for the M&E plan will often include a range of information, including performance statistics and programme outcome Example of monitoring framework Indicator Means Frequency Responsibility Proportion of health facilities offering CMAM services Routine programme monitoring report compilation Monthly UNICEF and MoH information management focal point Proportion of medical/nursing schools that have integrated training in CMAM into their curricula Stakeholder review Yearly Nutrition directorate of MoH and national teaching institution nutrition focal point Percentage of reports reaching national level for compilation Routine programme monitoring report compilation Monthly UNICEF and MoH information management focal point TABLE 2 PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 25 Spanish).26 These are in line with International Sphere standards (see box 14). To monitor the performance of SAM management in non-emergency contexts, Sphere indicators (for recovery, default, death and coverage) are still used. Though questions have been raised as to the appropriateness of Sphere standards in non-emergency contexts, well-run national programmes are achieving results using these standards, at least for recovery, default and death. Though Sphere targets for treatment coverage27 in rural and camp settings are proving to be routinely attainable at the district level in emergency programmes, experience is showing that it is challenging to achieve these levels of coverage with the less intensive support that characterizes national programmes. The targets are