caveat up front is that data from different sources will be derived from different methodologies and will likely be from different time periods (in a good harvest year; pre/postharvest etc.) so comparability is problematic. Nevertheless, for planning purposes, this information can be of use. For instance, in Country X, out of a total of 8 provinces, SMART surveys were conducted in 3 provinces while MICS was available for the other 5 provinces. The burden by province could still be calculated using the different SAM prevalence (from SMART and MICS) with the incidence correction factor and 6-59m populations for each province. The burden for each province would then be added together to generate a national burden estimate (as per the calculation in Method 1.A). Method 3A: Use aggregated national figures. If a country has an aggregated national level SAM prevalence figure (e.g. the aggregated figure of 2.8 in the example from Method 1) it can be used in the following calculation: National Burden = national population 6-59m x [national prevalence + (national prevalence x 1.6)] Which can be simplified to: National Burden = National population 6-59m x national prevalence x 2.6 Target area burden: In the case of national programmes, the national burden and target area burden will be the same, so there will be no need for further calculation. In the case of programmes that do not aim to be national, the target area burden should also be calculated. To calculate the burden in the area targeted for SAM programmes, the following methods can be used, which are similar to Methods 1A, 2A and 3A for national burden calculation. Method 1B (the preferred method): utilizing standardized sub-national data As above for the national calculation, use the standardized regional/provincial SAM prevalence estimates for the programme target area (e.g. the SMART data per province/region) with the province/region 6-59m population. Target Area Burden = sum of target area regional (or provincial) burdens Which can be simplified to: Regional Burden = regional population 6-59m x regional prevalence x 2.6 NOTE: If regional or local SMART survey data are used to calculate the prevalence of the SAM burden in the programme target area but a mix of different surveys (e.g. MICS and SMART) are used to calculate the national burden, there may be a noticeable discrepancy in the figures since the methodology is not the same. If there is a noticeable discrepancy, the likely reasons