to facilitate planning at each level and guide the development of yearly or multi-year action plans. The tool is geared for use as part of a participatory exercise involving a group of assessors 126 UNICEF and Valid International, ‘Global Mapping Review Of Community-Based Management Of Acute Malnutrition With a focus on Severe Acute Malnutrition’ https://intranet.unicef.org/ pd/pdc.nsf/0/A0D7BC73A4211EC985257A7E004C8312/$FILE/ SHORT_CMAM%20Mapping%20Report%20April%2011.docx representing all partners who work with a facilitator. Areas of assessment are divided among participants according to expertise and experience. The exercise may be carried out annually or every several years as part of monitoring, evaluation and planning of national SAM management programmes. It can be integrated into national planning cycles. The exercise includes: • Pre-assessment: Identification and mapping of stakeholders and identification of data sources. • Assessment: Key informant interviews and site visits, using a matrix of benchmarks and based on literature review. The assessment grades progress against the benchmarks to identify gaps and bottlenecks. • Analysis and validation: Analysis of the causes of the gaps and bottlenecks, involving review and comment by partners. • Planning: Analysis of the feasibility of addressing the gaps and bottlenecks using a planning tool. Partners reach agreement on which gaps are to be addressed and a time frame for doing so, which is captured in an action plan. The approach is being reviewed and it is hoped that it can link with similar approaches for other nutrition interventions and the wider health service package (see below). Following a technical meeting on integrating management of SAM in Brussels, September 2012, a task force was initiated, to be co-chaired by UNICEF and WHO. The task force is reviewing and documenting lessons learned and best practices from current integration models and develop a harmonized approach and/or recommend best options to support integration of management of SAM into national health systems. District health systems strengthening approach A four-step district health systems strengthening approach (DHSS) is being applied in an increasing number of countries. The approach SAM MANAGEMENT: INFORMATION FOR PROGRAMMING 65 operationalizes the equity agenda at the subnational level by identifying and resolving supply, demand and quality bottlenecks to achieve universal health coverage with equity. This DHSS approach can be adapted and used by COs, programme coordinators, partners and health management teams and can incorporate management of SAM into the relevant health package. The approach simultaneously provides: • A structured and straightforward way to operationalize UNICEF’s equity-focused strategy to achieve