and sanitation. It may indicate the need for stronger programme linkages with other sectors. ▪ Mapping: Simple mapping can also be done. This will help determine where most of the admissions are coming from and can help determine if more sites should be opened. This will help programme managers better understand possible issues in the programme such as high default or low coverage. Determining coverage ▪ Case coverage is one of the most important indicators of how well a programme is meeting needs. You may have a very good quality programme with very few deaths, low default and high recovery rates, but if you are only reaching 30% of the children who need treatment then your programme cannot be considered successful. The aim is to achieve both quality and good coverage. ▪ Case coverage is expressed as a percentage. If there are 100 acutely malnourished children living in a programme area and 70 of them are in the programme, then coverage is 70%. ▪ Coverage is usually determined through conducting a coverage survey. Coverage surveys should ideally be conducted every 6 months. Coverage surveys can reveal a lot of information about why children do not attend the program, why some maybe excluded and possible barriers to access. However coverage surveys are costly and require specially trained staff. Simple mechanisms to gauge coverage levels can be used in on a continual basis to monitor the programme. lvii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Supervision Responsibilities and role of the Supervisor (or supervisory team) ▪ Responsibility for supervision of various components of the CMAM programme or the programme as a whole should be established during the planning stages. Supervisors are responsible for ensuring the programme is running smoothly and overall programme quality. The Supervisor should be able to pick up on errors and correct them as well as address any issues that arise in the programme. ▪ Supervision visits may be conducted by the District Health Management Team or equivalent and may be part of an integrated supervisory visit. ▪ Supervisors should be responsible for ensuring that cards are filled in and filed correctly. Supervisory visits should include review of the OTP cards particularly the cards of children who have died, defaulted and those not responding to treatment. The Supervisor should ensure that admission and discharges are made according to the