weekly data into a monthly report. ▪ The data from each site should be compiled into a monthly report for the whole programme. This can be done on paper or using an Excel spreadsheet. Using the monthly reports to determine program performance ▪ The monthly report can be used to fill out a report form (Annex 28). ▪ Programme outcomes (numbers of children recovered, deaths, defaults and non-recovered) can be compared to international minimum standards. This will tell you if your programme is performing well and according to international standards. Outcomes can be illustrated into a graph. ▪ The monthly report should be reviewed by the health facility team during monthly meetings. In many cases the supervisor or supervisory team from the district health office will be responsible for reviewing programme performance at health facility level. ▪ Meetings with community and programme beneficiaries can be held to find out more about the reasons for specific issues that such as a high default or cultural barriers to access. This can be done through Focus Group Discussions (FGDs). Focus groups should be carefully selected to ensure that specific issues are discussed by the appropriate community representatives. COLLECTION OF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION lvi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Additional information on may be gathered from community health workers and community volunteers and through discussions with caregivers of children and other community members. Readmissions: This can help programme planners understand the situation outside of the programme. Interventions may be needed at household level to avoid high readmission rates. It may also indicate children are discharged too early. ▪ Cause of death. Information on causes of death should be recorded on the child’s cards. Compiling this information can help identify problems with treatment and use of action protocols and where training and supervision may be needed. ▪ Reasons for default and non recovery: Compilation of this information can help identify common problems for default and non-recovery. Common reasons for non-recovery may include high infectious disease prevalence, sharing of food in the household, poor water and sanitation. It may indicate the need for stronger programme linkages with other sectors. ▪ Mapping: Simple mapping can also be done. This will help determine where most of the admissions are coming from and can help determine if more sites should be opened. This will help programme managers better