to health facilities and need for additional measures to bring the service to the population • Phased Geographical Expansion of service nationally according to plan • Referral facility for inpatient care in each district • Agreement between government and stakeholder on support roles • Agreement between government and stakeholders on thresholds and support modalities for emergency. • Proportion of districts offering full geographical coverage of management of SAM (i.e,. service offered in all facilities) • Proportion of districts with emergency contingency plans in place DEMAND (ACCESS & UPTAKE) Community mobilisation • Stakeholders within other sectors identified • Community mobilization strategy developed based on assessment of social norms and social capital • Roles and responsibilities for community components agreed • Review of strategy based on pilot experiences and coverage assessment • Scale-up plan incorporates further assessment and development of strategies for different cultural contexts/areas • Roles and responsibilities for community component written into terms of reference of relevant district and facility level health staff and other sectors • Proportion of caregivers surveyed who know about the programme and understand who is eligible Coverage • Plan for periodic treatment coverage assessment developed • Review of spatial coverage and barriers to coverage • Additional investigation and measures put in place to address coverage issues • Compliance is maximized (low default) • Mechanism in place for periodic coverage assessment and community feedback to the programme. • Above information triggers action • Proportion of districts attaining treatment coverage within agreed standard after six months of implementation. • Default rates within standards continued UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 92 Tool (with link) Developed by Use POLICY/ADVOCACY Joint Statement: Community-based management of severe acute malnutrition. 2007. English, French151 WHO/SCN/ WFP/UNICEF 2007 Provides background to and UN endorsement of CMAM for use in advocacy for the adoption of the approach. Joint Statement: WHO child growth standards and the identification of severe acute malnutrition in infants and children. English, French152 WHO/UNICEF 2009 Provides background to and UN endorsement of WHO standards and MUAC <11.5cm for identification of SAM for use in advocacy for their adoption. The publication also recommends the 2006 WHO growth standards for use in programmes. MBB Marginal budgeting for bottlenecks153 UNICEF and World Bank 2007 A tool that estimates the marginal/incremental resources required to overcome constraints and achieve better results and relates these resources to the country’s macroeconomic framework that starts current implementation of approaches within the