on performance are all critical elements of supportive supervision, particularly when a new programme is being rolled out. The benefits can be seen both in good adherence to protocols and in staff motivation. The level of supervision required, at least during initial scale-up, usually necessitates additional support from the MoH. Some successful measures that countries have used to address the capacity challenge of supervision are given in box 27. Developing monitoring and reporting systems Common monitoring and reporting bottlenecks include: • Complexity and lack of uniformity of reporting formats and systems • Lack of harmonization of templates and data collection tools across countries or between partners working at the country level • Absence or weakness of systems for collating, analysing and acting upon the data collected • Insufficient attention to coverage monitoring • Incomplete or untimely reporting • Difficulty integrating reporting for management of SAM into health management information systems Limited feedback loops and limited analysis/application at decentralized levels. Measures to address these bottlenecks are discussed below. Simplifying formats The monitoring and reporting formats and systems used for SAM management need to be simple in order to not overburden staff and information systems. As decentralization of treatment increases, so too does the need to simplify and standardize reporting, as Good practice: Addressing supervision and monitoring challenges • A dedicated unit. The supervisory role is taken on by a national management of SAM support unit that is housed within and comprises members of the national health team, with financial and technical support from UNICEF and/or others. Supervision is progressively turned over to corresponding units in regional and district health teams as scale-up progresses and the workload increases. • Joint supervision with support partners (UNICEF and/or others) helps to build capacity, pool transport, improve motivation and facilitate follow-up of recommendations made during monitoring visits. • Third party supervision and monitoring takes place through an independent third party who is contracted to carry out these tasks on behalf of the government following clear criteria (including defined checklists and tools) and identify support needs. This approach may be particularly useful where there are issues of access for government and international staff. • Periodic bimonthly spot quality checks are undertaken by government and/or international agency staff. These may be called for where donors have questioned the reliability of third-party monitoring. • Community-level informants report on quality of implementation as a crosscheck against information gathered during