community prevention and management of SAM, within the broader context of the principles of the SUN movement. The new Strategic Plan reflects strategies to continue the scale-up and integration of SAM management into routine services. It emphasizes the need to move away from vertical implementation to horizontal implementation that is integrated into national programmes and systems. For programme sustainability, it also underlines the need to support central level work with integrated outreach, community mobilization and participatory approaches. Strategic global partnerships for management of SAM programming (including collaboration with WHO and WFP) are also highlighted as key for sustainable technical support. Global and country-level roles At the global level UNICEF has played a major role in the initial endorsement of the communitybased approach to management of SAM, along with the other United Nations agencies. UNICEF has been similarly engaged in developing global guidance and materials and supporting introduction and scale-up of the approach in a number of countries. Since 2008-2009, responding to the rapid expansion of the approach and the lack of consolidated information on country progress, UNICEF has also undertaken an initiative to map global progress in management of SAM (see page 51). The first stage of this effort concluded that there were considerable information gaps and constraints in the data collection system for management of SAM, despite the wealth of valuable information provided by UNICEF country offices. The exercise identified a need for a wellstructured, reliable information system on the status of scale-up of CMAM, to inform delivery of resources to improve the quality of programming. Management of SAM within the UNICEF Strategic Plan 2014-2017 Programme impact: Realizing the rights of every child, especially the most disadvantaged Outcome 4: Nutrition Outcome Indicators: Improved and equitable use of nutritional support and improved nutrition and care practices Outputs: • Enhanced support for children and caregivers and communities for improved nutrition and care practices • Increased national capacity to provide access to nutrition interventions • Strengthened political commitment, accountability and national capacity to legislate, plan and budget for scaling-up nutrition interventions • Increased country capacity and delivery of services to ensure protection of the nutritional status of girls, boys and women from effects of humanitarian situations • Increased capacity of governments and partners, as duty-bearers, to identify and respond to key human rights and gender equality dimensions of nutrition • Enhanced global and regional capacity to accelerate progress in child nutrition BOX