how to track him/her (e.g., CMAM admission criteria, CMAM entry categories, outpatient care treatment cards). Tell participants that they will shortly learn about other tools to help them with classification and tracking: filing treatment cards in binders and completing site tally sheets and site reporting sheets.  Classifying Exits: On exit from outpatient care, each infant or child is categorised as discharged as cured, died, defaulted or non-recovered; this is also indicated on the outpatient care treatment card and tallied. The exits are also categorised by age (< 6 months, 6-59 months and others [children ≥ 5 y, adolescents, adults]). Ask participants again what tools they have encountered in their training that can help determine which category each infant or child falls into and how to track him/her (e.g., CMAM discharge criteria, CMAM exit categories, outpatient care treatment cards, binders, site tally sheets). Referrals to inpatient care or outpatient care are a separate exit category. Note: Infants and children who are referred between outpatient care and inpatient care are considered discharged from the site but NOT from the service/programme. They are registered at the new site using their unique registration number and may return to their original site; their status is “referred.” Children who are not recovering are referred for further medical investigation as soon as the condition is diagnosed and exit from CMAM as non-recovered only if they do not reach the discharge criteria after four months of treatment. Children referred to outpatient care from supplementary feeding because their condition has deteriorated are considered new admissions. REVIEW: OUTPATIENT CARE TREATMENT CARDS. Distribute copies of outpatient care treatment cards to participants. Review where anthropometry, medical history, feeding information, physical examination, appetite test, medical treatment and nutrition rehabilitation information for each child are entered. Review the back of the card where information on referrals and discharges (infants and children who were cured, died, defaulted or did not recover) should be entered. Remind participants that health care providers and supervisors should review the outpatient care treatment cards regularly to ensure that current protocols are followed. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: FILING OUTPATIENT CARE TREATMENT CARDS. Explain to participants the importance of having a clear and accessible filing system for outpatient care treatment cards that makes tracking active and exited cases simple and allows for quick reference. Outpatient care treatment cards should be organised in binders or files that remain in the health facility and should