It is essential to monitor them closely so that any deterioration in their clinical condition can be picked up rapidly. Ensure that all the following information is completed on the in-patient care. F75 by mouth should be tried every day patiently before use of NGT. The use of the NGT should not normally exceed 3 days. xxx National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Monitoring the child in inpatient care Transition Phase Children can start on RUTF when: Any complication has been treated, oedema has resolved or decreased to at least 1+ and the child begins to have an appetite. ▪ If the child initially refuses RUTF, continue to offer every day (without forcing) until it is accepted. ▪ It may take a few days to develop appetite for RUTF. If RUTF cannot be eaten, F100 should be given until the child develops appetite to eat sufficient RUTF. RUTF should be offered. ▪ Give RUTF according to the weight of the child (Annex 10). RUTF Plenty of clean water should be given to the child to drink. Breast-fed children should be always offered breast milk before RUTF. ▪ It is common for the children to get some change in stool frequency when they change diet from F75 to RUTF. This does not need to be treated unless the child looses weight. ▪ The child should be able to at least 75% of RUTF (according to weight) for 1-2 days before he/she is eligible for exit from in-patient care and transferred to OTP. ▪ The child can be discharged from inpatient care if they can eat 75% of the RUTF ration and complications are resolved. Measurements to be taken AT EACH FEED Measurements to be taken TWICE DAILY Measurements to be taken and recorded ONCE DAILY ▪ Amount of F75 feed the child takes ▪ Any occurrence of vomiting / regurgitation of the feed ▪ Body temperature ▪ Respiration rate ▪ Pulse ▪ Weight ▪ Oedema(grade assessed daily) ▪ Frequency and type of stools ▪ Amount and frequency of vomiting ▪ Dehydration ▪ Respiration/chest drawing in ▪ Cough ▪ Liver size ▪ Extremities ▪ Palmer pallor xxxi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Use of F100 ▪ F100 (100kcal/100ml)) can be used in the transition phase if the child does