are available. Refer to SFP (if this is available). ▪ Do not make the mother feel guilty for the state of her child or blame her for giving other foods. Strongly reassure the mother that the SST works and that she will get enough milk herself to make her baby better. ▪ Encourage and teach correct positioning and attachment for breastfeeding. ▪ Treat any breast infections (mastitis). ▪ Be attentive to her and introduce her to the other mothers. ▪ She should drink at least 2 litres of water per day. ▪ She must eat enough about 2500kcal/day. ▪ The mother who is admitted in the centre with her child should receive Vitamin A: If the child is above 6 weeks: give 200,000 IU. ▪ Micronutrient supplementation should be given to the mother. The quality of the breast milk depends upon the mother’s nutritional status. It is critical that the mother is properly fed during her stay in inpatient care with her infant. Exit Criteria Breast-fed infants less than 6 months being breast-fed can be discharged when: ▪ The infant is gaining weight (10g/day) on breast milk alone after the SST has been used. ▪ There is no medical problem. ▪ No oedema The infant should be transferred to OTP where they can continue to be monitored. ▪ Complete a transfer slip (Annex 23). The mother and infant should be followed up at home by a community health care provider. During the follow up visits: ▪ Monitor the infant’s weight gain and general health ▪ Assess breastfeeding practice and provide support if needed ▪ Assess the health and well being of the mother and address any issues ▪ Refer to the health center if necessary Managing infants < 6months who are not breast fed When there is no prospect of being breastfed, the malnourished infant should be treated according to the standard protocol with the following modifications. Phases of treatment Stabilisation phase (Phase 1) ▪ Wasted infants<6 months can be given F100 diluted in Phase 1. Infants with oedema should be given F75. ▪ The amounts of F100 diluted to give are shown in Table 7. Babies should receive feeds at 3 hourly intervals or 2 hourly intervals if the infant is very ill. xl National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women ▪ Babies should be fed by cup, dropper