information (what? how? who? where? when?) that would need to be conveyed to make sure the community’s understanding of the CMAM services is both accurate and complete. Write answers on a flip chart, filling in gaps with the typical content found in Handout 3.7 Developing Simple and Standardised CMAM Messages, Section A. Note for participants the importance of using the key messages as an opportunity to address concerns raised in the community assessment. WORKING GROUPS: DEVELOPING AND USING HANDBILLS. Describe the process of creating a handbill from the standard CMAM messages (i.e. simplifying messages, translation into local language, back-translation, photocopying, disseminating, and tracking misconceptions once disseminated, reworking as necessary). Ask participants to form working groups of three or four and to think of different venues and audiences where the handbills could be used to spread accurate and complete information throughout the community. Also ask them to think of their own local circumstances and to try to think of how the handbill could be used to communicate through radio, public address systems, etc. Discuss and refer participants to Handout 3.7 Section B and Handout 3.8 Reference: Handbill Messages. Compare responses. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: USING VISUAL COMMUNICATION TOOLS. Refer participants to Handout 3.9 Reference: Visual Communication Tools and explain that visual communication tools such as posters, leaflets, and fliers can play an important role in reminding communities, families, mothers, and caregivers of what, where, and when services are available. Step One: Community Assessment Step Two: Formulation of Community Outreach Strategy >>Step Three: Development of Messages and Materials Step Four: Community Mobilisation and Training Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 55 Module 3 Learning Objective 5: Discuss Preparations for Community Mobilisation and Training TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 3.10 Key Actions in Community Mobilisation and Training and Handout 3.11 Planning and Implementing a Mass Training Campaign for Mothers and Family Members. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: PREPARING FOR COMMUNITY MOBILISATION AND TRAINING. Refer participants to Handout 3.10 Key Actions in Community Mobilisation and Training, reminding participants that this is the fourth step in preparation for CMAM community outreach. Outline the four key actions in preparing for community mobilisation and training: • Establish reliable communications between service providers, community, mothers, and families. • Assist communities with selection of outreach workers where necessary. • Train outreach workers (e.g., CHWs, volunteers) to perform case-finding. • Train mothers and family members to regularly screen their children