FIES data are reported in terms of the percentage of households or individuals who have experienced food insecurity at a given level of severity or higher, combining moderate and severe level of food insecurity, or focusing on severe levels only, depending on the context. For compiling cross-country comparable indicators, UN-FAO has established a global reference scale of severity (the Global FIES Reference Scale) and identified thresholds that separate food security and mild food insecurity levels from moderate or severe levels. The prevalence of food insecurity measured at these international thresholds using the FIES is indicator 2.1.2 of the global SDG monitoring framework23. Consolidated Approach to Reporting on Indicators of food security (CARI)24 CARI was officially launched in February 2014 by WFP. This was applied in the food insecurity outcome analysis of the current assessment as well as the previous similar assessments. The CARI culminates in a food security console which supports the reporting and combining of food security indicators in a systematic and transparent way. The food security console is the final output of the CARI. It has an advantage over previous applied methods because it composites two important dimensions of household food security including food composition which is an indicator of the current food security and coping capacity is a combined result of the food expenditure sharean indicator economic vulnerability and livelihood coping. Domain Indicator Food Secure (1) Marginally Food Secure (2) Moderately Insecure (3) Severely Insecure (4) Current Status Food Consumption Food Consumption Score Acceptable Borderline Poor Coping Capacity Economic Vulnerability Food Expenditure Share <50 percent 50 64.9 percent 65 74.9 percent =>75 percent Asset Depletion Livelihood Coping Strategies None Employed stress strategy Employed crisis strategies Employed emergency strategies 23 Prior to CFSLA, FIES was tested in the ‘vulnerability Assessment’ 2017’ however, with a different methodology and admin units. 24 It combines a suite of food security indicators into a summary indicator – called the Food Security Index(FSI)which represents the overall food security status. Central to the approach is an explicit classification of households into four descriptive groups based on the composite food Security Index: food secure, marginally food secure, moderately food insecure and severely food insecure. Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 16 Food Consumption Score The Food Consumption Score (FCS) is a proxy indicator used by WFP to provide a relatively easy way to compute the overall adequacy of