CMAM. Refer back to Handout 7.5 Capacity Grid for CMAM at the District Level if necessary. BRAINSTORM: TRANSITION PLANNING. Explain to participants that transition refers to the process leading up to hand-over, including planning and preparation for the gradual transfer of roles and responsibilities for CMAM services to the MOH until hand-over is complete. Note that in many locations, CMAM has been initiated by NGOs or outside donors in collaboration with the MOH or local/district health office. From the outset, a plan should be in place for the MOH to eventually assume control of the CMAM services, particularly if the services will be integrated into routine health services. Planning also is required if the intervention is short term and must be phased out. On the flip chart, create a chart with two columns, labelled “Emergency CMAM Programme” and “NonEmergency CMAM Programme.” Ask participants to brainstorm on the differences between an emergency CMAM programme and a non-emergency CMAM programme (e.g., management, goals, objectives, resources, intensity, priority within the health system, staffing, components). Write ideas on the flip chart. Based on these differences, ask participants what they would need to consider during CMAM planning if they are transitioning from an emergency to a non-emergency context. WORKING GROUPS: PRACTICE TRANSITION PLANNING. Refer participants to Handout 7.15 Matrix for Transition Planning of CMAM and tell them to refer back to their capacity assessment at the district level. Ask each working group to fill out the matrix. Have groups compare Potential Adaptations: This is a very context-specific activity. Trainers should adapt it to audience needs and adjust the amount of time spent on this topic. This should have been discussed in much greater detail in Learning Objective 4: Develop an Action Plan for CMAM. It can also be part of the CMAM Capacity Grid (see Handout 7.5 Capacity Grid for CMAM at the District Level for reference), rather than a separate activity. Participants’ professional roles will also affect this activity. For example, health care managers might need to think about long-term support for the programme, while health care providers might be more concerned with how to handle the services with current staffing levels. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: CONTINGENCY PLANNING. Explain to participants that unexpected events or circumstances, such as civil unrest or natural disasters, might rapidly increase the number of SAM cases among already vulnerable populations. It is critical to plan for these contingencies so that the