network. In order to determine the availability of the power supply, households were asked about availability of electricity at the household level. About 73 percent of households reported that electricity is available at home while the remaining do not. The situation is worst in TSD Lakki, followed by South Waziristan and TSD Bannu where 90 percent, 73 percent and 59 percent households respectively reported not having access to electricity. Table 49: Availability/access to electricity facility (% Households) Tribal Sub-Divisions Districts Overall Bannu D.I. Khan Kohat Lakki Peshawar Tank Bajaur Khyber Kurram Mohmand NW Orakzai SW Yes 73 41 68 100 10 81 89 76 85 77 99 79 85 27 No 27 59 32 0 90 19 11 24 15 23 1 21 15 73 Sources of Fuel for Cooking and Heating The long-deprived and crisis-affected Merged Areas have sufficient oil, gas and mineral resources to make the area economically self-sufficient within a few years. However, no exploration work has been done in the Merged Areas due to its precarious governance structure and on-going security operations. The CFSLA revealed that in the Merged Areas, overall, 93 percent of the households Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 53 are relying on traditional biomass fuels (wood, charcoal, agricultural waste, and animal dung), for cooking. Natural Gas or liquid petroleum gas (LPG) as a primary source of fuel for cooking is available only to around 5 percent households. In TSD Kohat, the use of firewood as a primary source of fuel for cooking is relatively low as 31 percent of the households reported use LPG and about 5 percent natural gas as a primary source of fuel for cooking. Similarly, for the heating purpose, households are mainly relying on similar sources of energy. Overall, about 91 percent of the households reported using ‘firewood’ as their primary source of fuel for heating purposes. The use of LPG and natural gas as source for heating is very limited except TSD Kohat where about 42 percent of households use it a source for heating. The inefficient use of these fuels results in significant public health hazards, as well as negative environmental impacts which contribute to increased poverty levels. There is a need for urgent interventions at the household level to provide alternative energy services in order to improve livelihoods. Table 50: Source of fuel for cooking and heating purpose