counselling and testing see P. Bahwere et al., “Uptake of HIV testing and outcomes within a community based therapeutic care (CTC) programme to treat severe acute malnutrition in Malawi: a descriptive study,” BMC Infectious Diseases, 2008, 8 (106): 1-13, www.biomedcentral.com/content/pdf/1471-2334-8-106.pdf. BOX 8 PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 19 malnutrition. Whether traditional MAM treatment through targeted supplementary feeding is feasible or advisable in long-term non-emergency contexts is currently under discussion at global level. Although there is an increasing amount of literature highlighting the importance of linking nutrition programs to water, sanitation and hygiene; agriculture, food security; and education programmes, there is still little documentation outlining optimal operational links. Their cross-sectoral nature makes it more challenging to build the evidence base for the added value of forging such links. Examples are: • Training primary school teachers and/or students to identify SAM in their villages and establishing links with community health workers The latest UNICEF IYCF programme guidance18 and associated materials are clear on the need for linkage between programmes: “IYCF and CMAM should be conceptualized and planned as two integral parts of a single programme to prevent and treat under-nutrition, not as two completely separate programmes.” There is also specific guidance available for integrating early childhood development (ECD) activities into emergency nutrition programming19. This guidance is based on the evidence that emergency programmes using mother-to-mother group support and home visits to improve mother-child interaction had other benefits: As the mother became more responsive to the child’s needs, maternal mood and well-being improved, as did the child’s nutritional status and growth outcomes. This approach suggests that ECD activities could be integrated within or linked to management of acute malnutrition in emergencies to maximize the recovery and the physical, social, emotional and intellectual development of children being treated. However, there is little evidence of what might be possible in this area in non-emergency contexts. Though such results are encouraging, there are still few documented cases of SAM management being planned together with or linked comprehensively with a range of nutrition and health interventions. One example is a comprehensive approach being implemented in Kenya, which is already offering some insights into best practices and issues (see box 9). Where other complementary health and nutrition interventions are not in place, management of SAM can help to bring those issues onto the agenda. The absence of services for the management of MAM is one example, in