UP 31 Good practice: Bringing management of SAM into the policy agenda • Key agency support: Have a key agency at the national level (with the agreement of other major agencies) that advocates for and supports the programme with expertise and resources. • Emergencies: Use emergencies to highlight the insufficient capacity to treat SAM with existing approaches and through accurate measuring of the burden of the problem. • International dialogue: Use discussions between nutrition experts (both international and national) and government officials to (a) help demonstrate the burden of SAM in the country and its implications for mortality, and (b) to debate technical protocols and strategies for achieving coverage and raising understanding of the importance of managing SAM as an integral part of the health system. This has been particularly useful in countries with concerns about how to introduce the approach, such as India (see special issue on management of SAM, Indian Paediatrics vol. 47). The participatory process of developing national guidelines for management of SAM can serve as a vehicle. • National momentum: More and more countries are joining the SUN Movement, thus demonstrating a clear interest and commitment towards nutrition. This represents key opportunities to ensure that the management of SAM is included in the national policies, strategies and action plans countries may review or develop to fulfil their commitments. • National technical working group: Use a central technical working group or government unit with wide buy-in from the nutrition sector to speak with one voice in advocating for management of SAM during national policy and strategy reviews and drafting exercises in the health and nutrition sectors. This group can also be used to advocate for wider poverty reduction and community development strategies. This group’s level of influence is determined by the importance accorded to nutrition at national level, which in turn influences the level at which discussions on management of SAM take place. In addition the technical working group can raise its influence among those who have a voice in the broader discussions. • Raising the institutional position of nutrition: Where nutrition cuts across sectors institutionally, exploit these benefits, such as facilitation of cross-sectoral work and greater mobilization of political will and thus resources for nutrition initiatives. (Some of the global initiatives described in page 45 may help to raise the institutional position of nutrition in a country.) • Pilot approaches: Widely share the results of pilot