coverage that a programme can achieved. This means that it will always overestimate treatment coverage. There are many issues which can bias the geographical coverage indicator at the facility level: • Improper numerators. The numerator is the number of facilities delivering CMAM services. This requires strict definition of what it means to deliver CMAM services. This is also related to issues of RUTF supply. A clinic with an inconsistent supply of RUTF should not be classified as delivering CMAM on a continuous basis. • Improper denominators. The correct denominator for facilities geographical coverage is all (primary) healthcare facilities. • Incomplete spatial coverage of facilities. It may be useful to correct the indicator for spatial coverage of healthcare facilities. For example, if 75 per cent of the population lives within 15 km of a functioning healthcare facility, then geographical coverage may be revised downwards (i.e., by multiplying by 0.75). Tis improves the indicator by bring it closer to treatment coverage. It may be useful to provide both the availability and accessibility coverage indicators. • Misspecification of catchment areas. This is linked to the issue of denominators and spatial coverage. Some programmes implement CMAM in, for example, 20 per cent of facilities Map of classes of facilitylevel geographical coverage by region FIGURE 7 0%–20% 20%–40% 40%–60% 60%–80% 80%–100% UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 76 and expand the catchment area of each of the facilities delivering CMAM services and claim 100 per cent coverage. This does not actually expand catchment areas but it does bias the indicator. More work is required to identify potential sources of bias. Potential bias can then be countered by robust definition of numerators and denominators and by correction, for e.g., RUTF stock-outs, clinic closures and spatial coverage. A2.2 Estimating treatment coverage One approach to estimating treatment coverage is to estimate burden/need as above and compare it to numbers of SAM cases admitted. This is an indirect approach. It is capable of providing only very approximate treatment coverage estimates and does not provide information on barriers/ bottlenecks. Treatment coverage = cases admitted within a given period/ burden for the same period NOTE: admissions are defined as cases newly admitted (otherwise defined as number of new SAM admissions). This is different from ‘cases treated’. It is recognized that many countries do not have programmes covering the whole country, nor are they aiming for nationwide coverage. The recommendation is to use a