bring the RUTF directly to your area. There also are some issues with referrals using bilateral pitting oedema and the MUAC tape. Sometimes you send a child because she/he has bilateral pitting oedema or the MUAC reading is red, but the nurse makes a different decision and sends the child home. You think that volunteers need more training to prevent these discrepancies and feel that if a volunteer refers a mother/caregiver and child to CMAM services, the child should be admitted. Mother 1: You like the CMAM services and know that other people’s children got better in the service. Your son had swelling on his feet and legs. You took him to the clinic and got the peanut paste and medicine. You shared the peanut paste with your six other children because it is the hungry season and there is not much food in the house. Your sick son ate maize as well as some of the peanut paste, but the maize was not so good because it had been stored for a long time. After three weeks, your son became very swollen all over his body, and when you went for the outpatient care follow-on session, the nurse wanted to send you to the hospital. It is very far away, and everyone you know who goes there dies. The hospital costs a lot of money, and you have no transportation. You want your son to get better in outpatient care, not in the hospital, and you do not understand why the nurse said your son needs to go there. Last week, you did not take your son to the outpatient care site because you didn’t want to be told to go to the hospital again. Mother 2: You were referred to CMAM services by community volunteers. They took a measurement of your daughter using a tape and then put their thumbs on her feet. They said that she had swelling on her feet and that you should take her to the outpatient care site. When you got there, the nurse measured your daughter and looked at her feet again. The nurse said she was fine and did not need to be in the service. You were angry and told everyone not to bother with this service. You know nearly every mother in your village. Father: Your -8-month-old twins are in outpatient care. One twin was sick and the other