supplements, such as Maamta and Wawamum, where family foods alone cannot meet nutritional requirements of those affected or at-risk. The SNFs provided by Nashonuma consist of a nutrient-packed paste made from chickpeas, vegetable oil, milk powder and sugar, and are comprehensively fortified with a vitamin and mineral premix. Maamta is provided to pregnant & breastfeeding women (75 g/d) and Wawamum to children 6-23 months (50 g/d) to complement their daily diet with essential nutrients, required for the prevention of stunting, wasting and micronutrient deficiencies and their consequences such as higher risk of morbidity and mortality, anaemia, reduced cognitive development and productivity. BENEFICIARY TESTIMONY “When my son was first weighed, I feared for his life. Through the Programme, he grew stronger, and I learned how to keep my children healthy. Now I know that one mother’s knowledge can change generations.” From fear to hope, Safia’s journey reflects how knowledge and care can transform lives. Through the Benazir Nashonuma Programme, her son Meesum’s health improved, and she discovered her own strength. © WFP/Anam Abbas 5 BENAZIR NASHONUMA PROGRAMME Midline Evaluation Results Midline Evaluation Results The results of the independent mid-term impact evaluation of the Nashonuma Programme by the Aga Khan University Institute for Global Health & Development (AKU) funded by the Gates Foundation and presented in September 2025 found that Nashonuma is delivering some of the strongest results ever documented globally for a large-scale nutrition programme. The repeated cross-sectional survey component of the study found a 6.4 percentage points lower prevalence of stunting among children aged 6-23 months who participated in Nashonuma as compared to those who did not. This is equivalent to a 15 percent lower prevalence of stunting. Similarly, in intervention districts, the prevalence of low birth weight in programme participants was 5.6 percentage points less than in non-intervention districts. Minimum dietary diversity among women was nearly 45 percent at midline, an increase of 16.9 percentage points among Nashonuma participants compared to nonparticipants, while among children aged 6-23 months, it was 14.5 percent, an increase of 5.8 percentage points compared to nonparticipants, but still very low. 1 Low birth weight is defined as <2500 g. Preterm births are those that occur before 37 weeks of gestation. Small vulnerable newborns have a birth weight that is too low for their gestational age or are born preterm. Findings from the longitudinal cohort follow-up are even more remarkable: • Among children from the