the health facilities with inpatient care Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 105 MODULE SIX: MANAGEMENT OF MODERATE ACUTE MALNUTRITION (MAM) IN THE CONTEXT OF CMAM Module Overview The module outlines the issues that should be considered when programmes or services for the management of moderate acute malnutrition (MAM) are part of community-based management of acute malnutrition (CMAM) services. The module focuses on supplementary feeding. Because most experience in management of MAM in CMAM has been in emergency situations to date, particular focus is given to supplementary feeding programmes (SFPs) as an intervention for the management of MAM in emergencies. The module addresses who is admitted and briefly describes the types of medical treatment and nutrition rehabilitation that are provided. The module also describes how the management of MAM fits in as a component of CMAM services. Emphasis is placed on ensuring a smooth referral process among CMAM components (e.g., from supplementary feeding to outpatient care or inpatient care). his module should be used alongside national guidelines for the management of MAM and the Management of Acute Malnutrition: A Decision Tool for Emergencies, available at http://nutritioncluster.net/?get=002086%7C2014/07/MAM-Decision-Tool-final-June-2014-corrected.pdf. The module includes a half-day site visit to a supplementary feeding site. Notes: Programmes and services to manage MAM are evolving with ongoing research on effectiveness of treatment options, approaches, and methods to simplify and improve impact at the individual and population levels (see Reference Resources and Further Reading Resources below for more details). It is important that MAM services or programme design and approaches are tailored based on the context, underlying causes of malnutrition, and resources available. The MAM decision tool for emergencies noted above can be used to help identify the most appropriate and feasible programme to address MAM in a particular context. Programmes and services to manage MAM should not be implemented in isolation. They should be part of a broader multisector nutrition programme including infant and young child feeding (IYCF) support in emergencies; livelihoods; food security; health; and water, sanitation, and hygiene (WASH) interventions. In exceptional emergency settings where global acute malnutrition (GAM) is high (above 15 percent in the absence of aggravating factors or above 10 percent in the presence of aggravating factors) and there is no SFP and/or outpatient care for the management of severe acute malnutrition (SAM) without medical complications, guidance on the use of combined protocol for SAM and MAM treatment