(above 15 percent in the absence of aggravating factors or above 10 percent in the presence of aggravating factors) and there is no SFP and/or outpatient care for the management of severe acute malnutrition (SAM) without medical complications, guidance on the use of combined protocol for SAM and MAM treatment is provided (see Handout 6.1 Management of Moderate Acute Malnutrition [MAM] in Emergencies). Because research is ongoing on the combined protocol for SAM and MAM, guidance provided in this module is a temporary option for emergency settings. The guidance should be seen as a complement to national guidelines to support the treatment of children until full services/programmes are set up. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 106 Learning Objectives Duration Handouts and Exercises 1. Describe Some Types of Programmes to Manage MAM and How this Component Fits Within CMAM 40 minutes Handout 6.1 Management of Moderate Acute Malnutrition (MAM) in Emergencies Handout 6.2 Principles of Supplementary Feeding for the Management of MAM 2. Describe Admission to and Discharge from the Management of MAM 25 minutes Handout 6.3 Admission Procedures in Supplementary Feeding Handout 6.4 Admission Criteria and Entry Categories CMAM Handout 6.5 Discharge Criteria and Exit Categories for CMAM Handout 6.6 Classification of Acute Malnutrition for CMAM Handout 6.7 Supplementary Feeding Treatment Card Cards 3. Discuss Medical Treatment and Nutrition Rehabilitation for the management of MAM 20 minutes Handout 6.8 Medical Treatment Protocols for Management of MAM Handout 6.9 Nutritional Rehabilitation Protocols for the Management of MAM Handout 6.10 Food Commodities Used for the Management of Acute Malnutrition Handout 6.11 Supplementary Feeding Ration Card 4. Practice Making Referrals from Supplementary Feeding to Outpatient or Inpatient Care 20 minutes Handout 6.12 Referral Slip Exercise 6.1 Referrals in CMAM 5. Supplementary Feeding Field Visit ½ day Handout 6.2 Principles of Supplementary Feeding for the Management of MAM Handout 6.4 Admission Criteria and Entry Categories for CMAM Handout 6.5 Discharge Criteria and Exit Categories for CMAM Handout 6.13 Supplementary Feeding Field Visit Checklist Wrap-Up and Module Evaluation 15 minutes Module Duration: Two hours of classroom followed by a half-day site visit Note: Depending on the needs of their audience(s), trainers may choose to skip or spend more or less time on certain learning objectives and activities. The module duration is an estimate of the time it takes to complete all the learning objectives and activities. Training Guide for