departments across the country and provide life-saving treatment to infants and children admitted for inpatient care. WHO ensures that the NSCs are well equipped through provision of therapeutic milk, essential equipment and placement and training of human resource. The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) provides locally produced Ready-to-Use Therapeutic Food (RUTF) for the treatment of uncomplicated severe acute malnutrition following the simplified protocols for the management of wasting. UNICEF also manages Social and Behaviour Change (SBC) activities at the FCs as well as in the community. The Nashonuma activities at the community level include mobilization, to raise awareness about Nashonuma and stimulate enrolment, and awareness sessions and counselling on Maternal, Infant, Young Child, and Adolescent Nutrition (MIYCAN), Key Family Care practices and nurturing care. Awareness raising is further supported with cooking demonstrations, establishment of mother, father and peer support groups, mass media, district and community campaigns, and engagement of religious leaders and influencers. And last but not least, the Nashonuma programme integrates adolescent nutrition and youth empowerment by positioning young people as agents of change within their communities. 9 BENAZIR NASHONUMA PROGRAMME Midline Evaluation Results COST-BENEFIT OF NASHONUMA PROGRAMME Globally, there have not been many nutrition programmes delivered at large scale that have shown the level of impact reported by this mid-term evaluation. The cost of the programme is approximately US $125 per person per year: US $55 for the conditional cash (PKR 3,500 or 4,000 per quarter) and US $70 for programme implementation at the FCs, including SNF purchase, transport, storage and delivery, maintaining and running the FCs as well as the beneficiary information system, Social and Behaviour Change communication, and screening and management of acute malnutrition. For a mother-child pair, from mid-pregnancy to 24 months of age, total Nashonuma cost is ~US $314 (29/12 months * 130). Including the Kafalat unconditional transfer (PKR 13,500 per quarter, ~US $195/y), the cost for the family during the full 1,000 days period (29 months, assuming enrolment in 2nd trimester of pregnancy) is US $785. These costs and the impact on stunting are comparable to those reported for two 1,000 days nutrition programmes in Guatemala and Burundi that also included family food assistance, a specialized nutritious food for mother and child, and upgraded health services,x as shown in the below table. The estimates for Pakistan will be further refined when the endline results have become available which will report the impact on