role in mediating these issues by supporting strong government coordination and the promotion/ enforcement of the use of standard guidelines and protocols as well as integrated and harmonized approaches that will continue to strengthen existing systems (see page 21). To address the issues associated with stop/start funding, an alternative framework20 for guiding UNICEF and NGO support to government is being implemented in some places, including Uganda and Kenya (see figure 3). The approach 20 Hailey, P. and Daniel Tewoldeberha, 2010, “Suggested new Design Framework for CMAM Programming,” Field Exchange 39, www. ennonline.net/fex/39/suggested. PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 21 Specific actions to enhance preparedness and DRR are outlined in the CCCs23 (UNICEF 2010) and DRR guidance24 (see box 10). Note that all these actions should routinely be part of SAM management programming scale-up. The use of the thresholds model noted above adds the critical component of defining the capacity gap that needs to be addressed and identifying support partners and modalities for emergency response as part of preparedness. Address coordination requirements The consultation at the beginning of the planning process, which would have identified a range of stakeholders for management of SAM scaleup, can contribute to the development and/or strengthening of coordination mechanisms and partnerships for management of SAM, and nutrition more broadly, in the country. It is essential that the scale-up planning and management is linked to longer term coordination mechanisms and partnerships, in order to contribute to smooth implementation and monitoring of scale-up. 23 UNICEF, 2010, ‘Core Commitments for Children in Humanitarian Action’, www.unicef.org/publications/index_21835.html. 24 UNICEF, 2011, ‘Disaster Risk Reduction Programme Guidance Note,’ https://intranet.unicef.org/Emops/EMOPSSite.nsf/root/ Page0502. Guidance point: CCC preparedness and DRR actions for management of SAM • Establish integrated guidelines for management of acute malnutrition. • Assess coverage of existing services for management of SAM and establish a contingency supply and distribution plan (see supply contingency calculations in supply tools from Box 3). • Map community capacities and communication channels to identify the most effective ones for disseminating nutrition information. • Ensure that the situation analysis takes account of trends in SAM admissions, in terms of the numbers and whether any particular groups (beyond children aged 6–59 months) are being identified with regularity. • Ensure emergency preparedness is included in national management of SAM scale-up plans and UNICEF national work plans. • Ensure capacity development for management of SAM. BOX 10 New framework for design of SAM DRR