Dietary Treatment of SAM With Medical Complications 4. Practice the Referral Process Between Inpatient Care and Outpatient Care 30 minutes Handout 5.5 Discharge Criteria and Exit Categories for CMAM Handout 5.7 Practical Implications in Discharges From Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 93 Inpatient Care Exercise 5.1 Referral from Inpatient to Outpatient Care Field Visit to Inpatient Care Site ½ day Handout 5.1 Essentials for the Management of SAM With Medical Complications in Inpatient Care Handout 5.8 Inpatient Care Field Visit Checklist Local Inpatient Care Treatment Card Wrap-Up and Module Evaluation 15 minutes Duration: Two hours of classroom time followed by a half-day site visit Note: Depending on the needs of their audience(s), trainers may choose to skip or spend more or less time on certain learning objectives and activities. The module duration is an estimate of the time it takes to complete all the learning objectives and activities. Materials • Referral slips (for referral from inpatient care to outpatient care and vice versa or for referral for further medical investigation) • Copies of a local inpatient care treatment card • National guidelines for management of SAM • Handouts and exercises Advance Preparation • Room setup, materials, flip charts, markers, masking tape • Check national protocols for the management of SAM • Obtain and make copies of a local inpatient care treatment card • Download and make copies of the updated WHO job aids on the management of SAM in infants and children (Note: Expected to be published in 2018) • Download and make copies of WHO’s Updates on the Management of SAM in Infants and Children (2013) (see link in reference resources below) • Download and make copies of WHO’s Management of Severe Malnutrition: A Manual for Physicians and Other Senior Workers (1999), (available at http://www.who.int/nutrition/publications/en/manage_severe_malnutrition_eng.pdf) and WHO’s Guidelines for the Inpatient Treatment of Severely Malnourished Children (2003) (see link in reference resources below) • Prepare sets of cards with an admission and discharge criterion written on each • Collect or prepare referral slips • Review relevant reference resources and further reading resources listed below. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 94 Reference Resources 1. World Health Organisation (WHO). 2002. Training Course on the Management of Severe Malnutrition. Geneva: WHO. (Note: Update expected to be published in 2018) 2. WHO. 2013. Guideline: Updates on the Management of Severe Acute