the Field The training methods and activities used throughout the modules will be practical and participatory, building on participants’ knowledge, skills, and experience. In addition to the written materials and practical exercises in the classroom, some of the training modules include fieldwork in communities, health facilities, and outpatient and inpatient care sites. This fieldwork complements the theory learned in the classroom and gives participants an opportunity to develop the practical skills required to implement CMAM. 2. Methods and Materials The full course takes about 11 days and places significant emphasis on developing practical skills. It requires about 4½ days of classroom work and about 6½ days in the field. Modules There are eight modules ordered sequentially. Trainers/facilitators may adapt the length of the modules, leave out a module or change the order of the modules according to the context and the target audience’s needs. The modules are generic. Every context is different, and trainers/facilitators will need to modify the modules according to the context, guidelines, and national protocols in a given country. For trainers: The complete trainer course materials include this trainer guidance and information, the eight modules, and participant handouts. The eight modules are designed to be used by trainers/facilitators as guidance and are not intended to be given to participants. An evaluation form, included as a handout at the end of this overview, can be used for each module. Each module includes: • An overview • A table detailing learning objectives and related handouts for classroom work • A list of materials required, including reference materials (if applicable) • Advance preparation that the trainer will need to do Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 2 • Suggested activities and training methods based on each learning objective, with instructions for the trainer/facilitator • A wrap-up and evaluation session for the module • A table detailing learning objectives and related handouts for the field visit (when applicable) • Suggested activities and methods to be conducted during the field visit (when applicable) For participants: Participants are given a package that contains handouts for each module. Additional reference materials: • Guideline: Updates on the Management of Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM) in Infants and Children (WHO 2013), available at: http://www.who.int/nutrition/publications/guidelines/updates_management_SAM_infantandchildren/en/ • Guidelines for the Inpatient Treatment of Severely Malnourished Children (WHO), expected publication in 2018/2019 at www.who.int/nut/publications • WHO, WFP, United Nations System Standing Committee on Nutrition, and