reference materials: • Guideline: Updates on the Management of Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM) in Infants and Children (WHO 2013), available at: http://www.who.int/nutrition/publications/guidelines/updates_management_SAM_infantandchildren/en/ • Guidelines for the Inpatient Treatment of Severely Malnourished Children (WHO), expected publication in 2018/2019 at www.who.int/nut/publications • WHO, WFP, United Nations System Standing Committee on Nutrition, and UNICEF 2007 joint statement on community-based management of severe acute malnutrition, available at https://www.unicef.org/publications/index_39468.html • National guidelines and protocols for SAM, outpatient care, inpatient care, and management of moderate acute malnutrition (MAM) • Local outpatient care treatment cards, inpatient care treatment cards, supplementary feeding treatment cards, ready-to-use therapeutic food (RUTF) ration cards and supplementary feeding ration cards The trainers/facilitators will need to provide all other course materials, including videos, blank cards, calculators, pens, and notebooks, as needed. Methods for Instruction This course is designed to build upon the participants’ knowledge and experience and to be relevant to their needs and the needs of their communities. It uses a variety of training methods including written exercises, practical exercises in small groups, discussions, role-plays, video demonstrations, practice, case studies and guest speakers. These methods give participants a thorough overview of concepts and protocols. The course structure is designed to challenge participants to come up with their own solutions to problems. The practical field component will reinforce theory learned in the classroom and give participants an opportunity to develop the practical skills required to implement services. Descriptions of methods and guidance for conducting trainings with adult learners appear at the end of this module. Participants also serve as resources for one another. Respect for individual trainees is central to the training, and sharing of experiences is encouraged throughout. 3. Course Planning Course Time Frame The approximate time it takes to cover each full module is noted in the table below as a guide for planning purposes. Course plans will vary according to the target audience and the context, and trainers/facilitators should adapt the training modules to suit participants’ needs. Trainers may choose to shorten or skip some modules and spend extra time on others depending on the participants’ knowledge, skills, and objectives, as well as the training time available. Note that if Module One is skipped for any reason, trainers should give participants the following Module One handouts that are referred to in other modules: Handout 1.1 Abbreviations and Acronyms, Handout 1.2 Terminology for CMAM and Handout 1.3 References and Further Reading. Training