Consumption rate for RUTF and therapeutic milk (depending on other systems in place): to aid in supply planning and potentially to trigger investigation if quantities used differ greatly from the average that would be expected given the number of children receiving treatment (136-150 sachets RUTF/child) • Numbers and trends in the proportion of ‘other’ admissions (mainly other age groups): an indication of the need for further programme support in identifying and treating those groups. Increases may also indicate deterioration in the nutrition situation. • Numbers and locations of referrals: allows for tracking of community agents’ activities, identification of areas needing additional services and those that may have gaps in coverage (low numbers of referrals may reflect either low levels of SAM or poor identification of cases). • Number of readmissions or repeat cases: allows for understanding of the community members perception of the programme, the identification of causal factors in the community and additional services needed. Feedback At district, regional and national level, reports should be shared with stakeholders and fed back to facilities and community agents through • Geographical coverage: Number of facilities with active treatment services out of the total number of facilities.30 This information allows tracking of scale-up progress in terms of the number of districts/facilities offering treatment, and the information can be collected from district reports and/or coordination forums (see annex A). • Treatment coverage: Proportion of children with SAM that are being reached with treatment. This information allows an assessment of scale-up progress in terms of what proportion of the burden is being reached. (See page 28, annex A and annex C for means of collection.) • Trends in admissions, performance indicators and bottlenecks: One important component of analysis is the identification of trends over time and geographic areas or centres where performance may be lagging. Where possible the data should be disaggregated by sex and analyzed to identify any notable differences between boys and girls. It is often useful to compare gender patterns in admissions versus gender disaggregated information from nutrition surveys. Information on specific bottlenecks can also be extracted and trends of removal of bottlenecks analysed. Analysis Analysis based on national formats should focus on: • Numbers and trends in admissions: to (a) identify seasonal patterns for resource planning, (b) identify anomalies in these trends that require further investigation, (c) track the effects of mobilization and scale-up efforts and (d) identify deterioration in