this with the mother/caregiver and then refer the child to inpatient care. Child D Question: Child D is presented at the outpatient care site with bilateral pitting oedema ++ and a MUAC of 110 mm. What action is needed? Answer: Refer to inpatient care for medical care and support because the child has marasmic kwashiorkor. All marasmic kwashiorkor cases should be referred to inpatient care. Child E Question: Child E is a three-month-old girl. Her mother was ill with the flu and stopped breastfeeding one week ago. The infant is being fed tea and cow’s milk, appears not to be gaining weight, and is clinically well. What action is needed? Answer: The mother-infant pair should be enrolled in outpatient care to re-establish exclusive breastfeeding. Explain the breastfeeding basics—good attachment, effective suckling, frequency of breastfeeding, gradual elimination of tea and cow’s milk, supply and demand—building her confidence along the way. Discuss building up her milk supply: what it takes, how long it might take, what is the likelihood of success, what might be other options, and what would be the upside/downside of relactation vs. other options. Address her questions: Will she need to eat more? Is her diet sufficient (quantity/quality)? Mother needs to be linked to family and community support. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 81 Child F Question: Child F is presented at the outpatient care site with bilateral pitting oedema +++. You want to refer the child to the hospital. Despite your best efforts to persuade the mother, her family refuses to let her take the child to the hospital. What action is needed? Answer: All cases of bilateral pitting oedema +++ should be referred to inpatient care for medical care and support. However, if a mother/caregiver refuses to take the child to inpatient care, the child should be admitted to outpatient care and receive the systematic treatment. The child should receive regular follow-up home visits during the first weeks to monitor his/her condition, and the mother/caregiver should be encouraged to bring the child back to the health facility if his/her condition worsens at any time. The child should again be referred to inpatient care if his/her condition worsens. Child G: Question: Child G is above 6 months and was admitted with a MUAC of 109 mm and a weight of 5 kg. The child gained a little weight the first week but