facility. • According to the findings of the CFSLA, as such no or very limited assistance have been extended to the households in the Merged Districts since the last return. • Food production in Merged Areas is far below from its requirement, thus households have strong dependency on market purchases which are making vulnerable households more susceptible to market price fluctuations, especially when foods become scarce. Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 25 • In developing economies, women make important contributions especially in the rural context through livelihoods, farm labourers on their farms or wage labourers on other people's farms, producing for their own consumption or for selling and other home-based livelihood activities. However, in the Merged Areas, women contributions in the livelihood is very insignificant. • In the Merged Areas, about 17.5 individuals above the age of 18 years do not hold CNICs, which is considered an essential and basic credential to be eligible for any service/assistance. This proportion is significantly higher for females. • Similarly, birth registration is extremely low in the Merged Areas; 91 percent of the children below the age of 18 years are not registered. Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 26 Food Availability This dimension of the food security shows that to which extent a sufficient quantity of good quality food is physically available in an area. It includes food available in the markets, produced on local farms or home gardens or provided as food aid or gifts. For net-surplus producing areas, the quantities of food siphoned off to other regions need to be deducted, and exports shall be excluded when computing availability at the national level. For net-deficient regions, the quantities of food entering in an area need to be included as do imports for estimating national statistics of availability. Agriculture The local food production in the Merged Areas is far below from adequate to meet the needs of the population. The total area of Merged Areas is 2.72 million hectares, out which only 14 percent is arable land and 37 percent cultivable waste32. Wheat is the main staple and most important cereal crop in Merged Areas, followed by maize. Barley and rice are also grown in small quantities. The total area under major crops and their production have reduced significantly with the onset of complex emergency starting in