management of MAM. Resources with internationally recognized protocols and other country guideline examples are useful to inform development of country guidelines (see annexes E and G, so the process of adapting them to meet country needs and experiences must be highly Guidance point: Examples of targets for scale-up • Extend the geographical coverage of management of SAM to all health facilities in at least 50 per cent of districts within three years, or more than 50 per cent of target districts. • Attain at least 50 per cent treatment coverage in at least 80 per cent of districts within a year of initiation of SAM management. • Incorporate SAM management into national development plan review within two years of start up. • Ensure that more than 40 per cent of districts where SAM management is being implemented include some resources for SAM management in their district implementation plans within three years. • Ensure that a certain number/percentage of regional and national training institutions have incorporated SAM management training into their curricula for health workers. BOX 5 • Identify operational research needs • Identify specific aspects of policy that hinder scale-up and therefore require attention • Identify aspects of national SAM and/or MAM management guidelines that require adaptation to respond to local contexts After this information is collected and analysed, findings should be discussed and reviewed with stakeholders. The results can feed into the bottleneck analysis and further scale up planning. Exercises to review implementation and progress with limited implementation of SAM treatment should be carried out prior to initiation of scaleup and then annually throughout the scale-up process to promote learning and programme adaptation. UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 14 that children will not be taken for care until a child is very ill) facilitates access and increases coverage. However, this advantage has to be balanced with the capacity of the health system, the resources available to support lower level implementation, and the capacity to establish and maintain strong links from the service provision to the health centre. If the lower level facilities cannot offer dependable service with sufficient resources, communities will not attend and there will be no benefit. One approach in cases where current capacity is limited is a stepped increase in decentralization as capacity is built at each level. • At the health facility: It is also important to decide: • At which points children will be identified: