the CMAM forum (see page 54), helping to direct its design and establishment. At country level UNICEF supports management of SAM from a programmatic point of view. This support, which can be technical and material (e.g., supplies, equipment, financial), concentrates on capacity building of government structures and services for management of SAM, or in the absence of government, of other local structures. Support can be provided directly or through NGO implementing partners and consultants. UNICEF’s aim is to facilitate support when and where it is needed in line with government guidance for management of SAM scale-up. This is particularly pertinent during emergencies, when UNICEF must balance its roles as cluster lead and ongoing supporter of government for CMAM scale-up with its commitment under the CCCs to ensure effective management of SAM for the affected population. UNICEF has played a key role in mediating relations between government and NGOs, in particular for ensuring that government retains or takes ownership over the national programme (for e.g., that guidelines are adhered to and information shared) while helping NGOs to respond to the surge in demand for services. Partnerships for management of SAM Building government capacity to manage SAM at a national level requires extensive support, and international and local NGOs as well as academic institutions have a major role to play in most contexts. Of late, UNICEF has tended to work with fewer, larger NGO partners that have broader geographic and programmatic scope. Management of SAM spans nutrition, health and HIV; thus, community-level programming needs the support of experienced partners with a national perspective who can act cross-sectorally. Increasingly, international NGOs are being called SAM MANAGEMENT: INFORMATION FOR PROGRAMMING 51 analyse trends and progress in SAM management (Nutridash) which is updated annually. In 2014, Nutridash was expanded to include IYCF and micronutrients as well as SAM management data. Global progress of SAM management scale-up In 2009/2010, UNICEF conducted a mapping review (updated in 2011) to determine the status of scale-up of CMAM with a focus on SAM treatment.76 Some key findings are summarized below. 76 It consisted of a questionnaire based on the WHO health systems framework covering qualitative information (general CMAM programme background and context; policy, financing and coordination; training and capacity development; drugs and therapeutic supplies) and quantitative information (caseloads; prevalence; access and coverage; performance indicators). The questionnaire was sent to 77 countries, selected due to previous orders for therapeutic supplies