trends across the markets suggest the markets are sufficiently integrated with the bigger markets outside and inside the districts. The prices are moving along the national price trend and thus they are generally volatile. The current and projected availability of food commodities in the local markets can safely be assumed comfortable where the markets are suitable for any kind of market-oriented response. 2. With the general increase in the number of suppliers, the number of customers served per day by the traders and the manner in which the prices of commodities are set, there is no 51 The ratio of the price of the primary income good relative to the price of the primary expenditure good, it simply measures the purchasing power of a particular livelihood group. In this Report, the Terms of Trade (ToT) between casual unskilled labour wage and Wheat flour is applied. This ToT reveals how many Kilograms of Wheat flour can be purchased with one-day casual unskilled labour wage but does not say how many days a month a labourer can get to cover the family food needs. 52 Weekly price sensitive indicators by Pakistan Bureau of Statistics for the month of October 209 Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 70 reason to believe that future increases in demand could result in a negative impact on functional markets, unless there is a huge shock. 3. Given the market demand situation as ‘normal’ or ‘higher than normal’ coupled with the fair supply situation again indicates that in the shorter term there is less possibility of any demand and supply gaps. Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 71 Recommendations The Merged Districts are highly impoverished with significant challenges across almost every aspect of human development. Some positive progress in the recovery of the Merged Areas was achieved through efforts made by the Government and its partners. In this regard, the findings of the Comprehensive Food Security & Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA) serve as a baseline to provide insights on important indicators of food security (food consumption, household dietary diversity, food insecurity experience scale, coping strategies, health, agriculture, markets and so on). Therefore, it is proposed that such an assessment be undertaken periodically every three years to update data and assess programmatic progress on interventions, their outcomes, and remaining needs. In the event of emergencies, including