in the management of SAM, other United Nations agencies and NGO staff operating at the country level. RUTF Production Links with interventions to prevent acute malnutrition Management of MAM Outpatient Management of SAM Inpatient Management of SAM FIGURE 1 Components of community-based management of acute malnutrition Community Mobilization PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 5 Therefore, care must be taken to avoid forming prescriptive models based on these cases. Each country’s progress, bottlenecks and solutions must be assessed individually and addressed locally. Following is a process for doing this (see figure 2) and guidance on options that have been successful in a number of countries. This section outlines five key steps to undertake when planning scale up of SAM management. Guidance is drawn from existing technical guidelines as well as lessons learned. Where possible, the steps are illustrated with practical examples and the guidance summarised in boxes. While this section focuses on SAM management, the steps may be embedded in national level discussions on scaling up or expanding nutrition services more generally. The literature suggests that some countries are forging ahead in scaling up CMAM, at least in terms of the proportion of health facilities offering the service. The 2011 global CMAM conference9 highlighted several examples including Ethiopia, Malawi and Niger which achieved high geographic coverage (as of 2013, reported as 60%, 87% and 89% respectively). All these countries figure prominently in the literature and thus inform much of the guidance below. However, they have also received substantial funding, intensive NGO support and international attention for the management of SAM. 9 ENN, 2012, ‘Government experiences of scale-up of Community-based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM): A synthesis of lessons’, www.cmamforum.org/ Pool/Resources/CMAM-Conference-Synthesis,-Addis,ENN-2012.pdf. Planning the scale-up of SAM management 2 FIGURE 2 Process for scaling up management of SAM Assesment and bottleneck analysis Implementation Design and planning for scale-up Monitoring UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 6 Step 1. Assess the magnitude and distribution of SAM Children aged 6-59 months with SAM are the main target for the majority of SAM treatment programmes, so the following information concentrates on this age group. However, other groups such as infants and HIV-positive older children and adults with SAM may represent substantial caseloads in some situations. In these cases it will be important to estimate the magnitude and distribution of SAM for those groups. (For more information see annex F, Management of SAM in other groups.) Estimate the