five and pregnant and lactating women The underlying causes may be associated with the treatment facility or a specific problem with the individual child. Common causes of failure to respond are shown in Box 4. Common causes of failure to respond to treatment in inpatient care Problems with treatment facility Problems with individual children ▪ Poorly trained staff ▪ Poor environment for malnourished children (including poor hygiene and risk for cross infection) ▪ Inaccurate weighing machines ▪ Therapeutic milk prepared or given wrongly ▪ Failure to complete the inpatient care correctly ▪ In sufficient food being given ▪ Food taken by siblings or caretaker ▪ Caretaker giving child his/her own food ▪ Vitamin or mineral deficiency ▪ Malabsorption ▪ Psychological trauma (particularly in crisis in situations and displacement. ▪ Rumination ▪ Infection especially diarrhoea, dysentery, pneumonia, tuberculosis, urinary infection, otitis media, malaria, HIV, hepatitis. ▪ Other serious underlying disease e.g. congenital abnormalities, neurological damage, inborn errors of metabolism Health and nutrition education and play Mothers/caretakers will spend 24 hours a day in in-patient care. This provides a good opportunity for mothers and caretakers to support each other and for health care providers and assistants to determine and address some of the reasons why the child became severely malnourished and to seek to prevent this from re-occurring. Simple messages can be developed for use in inpatient care (as in OTP) that attempt to address some of the underlying reasons for the child becoming malnourished in the first place. In some contexts these messages may already exist and can be adapted (for infant and young child feeding breastfeeding and complementary feeding messages). Every attempt should be made to use the same or similar messages that are given out in other existing programmes. It is essential that messages are reinforced by practice. These messages should focus on: basic hygiene such as hand-washing, the importance of frequent and active feeding and what local foods to give young children; identifying malnutrition (when to bring children to SC/OTP); management of diarrhoea and fever and recognising danger signs. Three essential messages (must be given and practiced) ▪ Hand-washing with soap before eating and after defecation ▪ Exclusive breastfeeding (for 6 months) and introduction and use of appropriate complementary foods ▪ Continued feeding during illness Play stimulation can also speed the recovery of the malnourished child. Play therapy is intended to develop language skills and motor activities aided