is defined as <2500 g. Preterm births are those that occur before 37 weeks of gestation. Small vulnerable newborns have a birth weight that is too low for their gestational age or are born preterm. Findings from the longitudinal cohort follow-up are even more remarkable: • Among children from the Nashonuma cohort, whose mothers had joined the programme in the 1st or 2nd trimester of pregnancy, the prevalence of stunting at 6 months of age was 20 percent lower compared to the non-Nashonuma cohort. • Mothers of the Nashonuma cohort were less likely to deliver a baby born too small or too early, they had 7 percent less small vulnerable newborn births, an unprecedented early gain, also very important for child survival. • Furthermore, a dose-response relationship was found the longer the duration of participation of the mother during pregnancy and the higher total number of SNF sachets consumed, the lower the incidence of low birth weight, preterm births and small vulnerable newborn births.1 The evaluation also demonstrated that Nashonuma has led to improvements in number of antenatal care visits, early initiation 6 BENAZIR NASHONUMA PROGRAMME Midline Evaluation Results of breastfeeding, and immunization coverage, including a 10 percent reduction of ‘zero dose immunisations’ – percentage of children aged 12-23 months who had not received any immunisations. The Nashonuma package: The evidence-base for its design Nashonuma was built using the findings of a set of rigorous cluster randomized controlled trials (2014–2019) with Aga Khan University and Government of Sindhivv. Based on strong results, the Nashonuma programme was designed by BISP with inputs from development partners and piloted in 2020, increased in scale in 2022, and scaled up to nationwide coverage from 2023 (157 districts, excluding some in Punjab). Meanwhile, the scope of the services provided at the FCs is also expanding, but this is not covered in this brief. In response to the ﬂoods, Pakistan developed its own specialized nutritious food to manage child wasting: AchaMum and WawaMum. 2010 2017 2017-2019 2016 2014-2019 2019 A similar specialized nutritious food was developed for pregnant and breastfeeding women (PBW): Maamta. The 2017-2019 study among children 6-23 months of age found that the combination of BISP’s Kafalaat unconditional cash transfer and specialized nutritious food including social and behaviour change communication was the most effective in preventing stunting in that age group. Realizing the devastating impact of stunting in early life on human capital development,