required inpatient care. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 80 Exercise 4.3 Identifying Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months Who May Need Referral to Inpatient Care or Follow-Up Home Visits (with answers) Child A Question: Child A is 2 years old, has a MUAC of 111 mm and has been referred by the CHW to CMAM services. On admission, the child refuses to eat the RUTF during the appetite test. You ask his mother/caregiver to move to a quiet area and try again. After a half-hour, the child still refuses to eat the RUTF. During the medical examination, you discover that the child has been vomiting for two days. What action is needed? Answer: Refer to inpatient care for medical care and support because the child has a serious danger sign of no appetite. Child B Question: Child B is presented at the outpatient care site with bilateral pitting oedema + and a MUAC of 117 mm. The child has good appetite and no other signs of medical complications. What action is needed? Answer: Admit to outpatient care as a bilateral pitting oedema admission. Child C Question: Child C was admitted to outpatient care with a MUAC of 109 mm and weight of 10 kg. The child did not gain any weight in the first three weeks, and by the fourth week has actually lost weight; the child now weighs 9.5 kg. What action is needed? Answer: This child is not gaining weight after four weeks in the CMAM service; you must refer him/her to inpatient care for further medical assessment and treatment. Ideally this child should have had a followup home visit after their outpatient care follow-on session the previous week (after the third week), according to outpatient care action protocols. Refer to the child’s outpatient care treatment card (or to the CHW or volunteer who visited the home if nothing was written on the card) to see how the child was doing at home and what the possible reasons for not gaining weight are, based on the follow-up home visit. Discuss this with the mother/caregiver and then refer the child to inpatient care. Child D Question: Child D is presented at the outpatient care site with bilateral pitting oedema ++ and a MUAC of 110 mm. What action is needed? Answer: Refer to inpatient care for medical care and support because