Recommended Citation: Food and Nutrition Technical Assistance III Project (FANTA). 2018. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM). Washington, DC: FHI 360/FANTA. September 2018 The training materials are made possible by the generous support of the American people through the support of the Office of Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition, Bureau for Global Health, U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and USAID/Botswana under terms of Cooperative Agreement No. AID-OAA-A-12-00005, through the Food and Nutrition Technical Assistance III Project (FANTA), managed by FHI 360. The contents are the responsibility of FHI 360 and do not necessarily reflect the views of USAID or the United States Government. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version i ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The development of the original 2008 Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) and the 2018 revision were the product of collaboration between many different people and organisations, all of whom contributed greatly to the final product. We would like to acknowledge the contribution of the following people and organisations: Development of the Original 2008 Training Guide for CMAM We would like to thank Hedwig Deconinck, Kristen Cashin, and Joan Whelan (Food and Nutrition Technical Assistance Project [FANTA]); Valerie Gatchell (Concern Worldwide); Tanya Khara (UNICEF); Anne Walsh (Valid International); Chantal Gegout (World Health Organisation [WHO]); and Margaret Ferris-Morris, Caroline GroblerTanner, Jamie Lee, and Maryanne Stone-Jiménez (independent consultants) for their valuable contributions as authors of various sections of the modules. We would like to thank Caroline Abla and Eunyong Chung (U.S. Agency for International Development [USAID]); Mohamed Ayoya, Leah Richardson, Mahendra Sheth, Adriana Zarrelli, and others (UNICEF); Andre Briend (WHO); Mike Neequaye (Ghana Health Service); Marie-Sophie Simon (Action Against Hunger); Nicky Dent, Kate Golden, Lynda Kiess, and others (Concern Worldwide), Kathryn Bolles (Save the Children); Mesfin Teklu (World Vision International); Fred Grant (formerly FANTA); Sandra Remancus (FANTA); Tula Michaelides and Renata Seidel (FHI 360); and Joseph Somuah Akuamoah and Sheikh Shahed Rahman (independent consultants) for technical inputs and review that strengthened the document. 2018 Revision of the Training Guide for CMAM We would like to thank Alice Nkoroi, Rebecca Egan, and Sandra Remancus (FANTA); Amanda Yourchuck (formerly FANTA); Marie McGrath (Emergency Nutrition Network); and Mary Lung’aho and Maryanne StoneJiménez (independent consultants) for their valuable contributions in the revision of various sections of the modules. We would like to thank Lindy Fenlason, Timothy Quick, Erin Boyd, Sonia Walia, Judy