Hand-washing with soap before eating and after defecation ▪ Exclusive breastfeeding (for 6 months) and introduction and use of appropriate complementary foods ▪ Continued feeding during illness Play stimulation can also speed the recovery of the malnourished child. Play therapy is intended to develop language skills and motor activities aided by simple toys. It should take place in a relaxed and stimulating environment. Storytelling and music can also help create a relaxed and stimulating environment. xxxiii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Discharge from inpatient care Discharge criteria for inpatient care depends on whether there is an OTP for the child to continue treatment. Where there is OTP Children should be discharged from in-patient care and transferred back to OTP when: ▪ There are no medical complications. ▪ Appetite returned the child has taken at least 75% of the prescribed RUTF ration for at 1-2 consecutive days. ▪ Oedema is resolving and has reduced to at least 1+. ▪ Weight gain for 2 consecutive days. Where there is no OTP Option 1: Establish an OTP at the inpatient site. Children should return to the OTP site every week or two weeks. Option 2: The child should remain in inpatient care and continue on RUTF until discharge criteria has been reached. Treatment protocol for the rehabilitation phases and discharge criteria are the same as OTP. Other reasons for exit ▪ Died: Child died while in inpatient care. ▪ Defaulted: Child defaulted (absent for two consecutive days). ▪ Medical referral (child was referred to hospital for medical assessment). xxxiv National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Table 5: Discharge criteria from inpatient care (children 6-59 months) Category Criteria Discharge to OTP ▪ There are no medical complications ▪ Appetite has returned (the child has taken at least 75% of the prescribed RUTF ration for at least 1-2 consecutive days) ▪ Oedema is resolving and has reduced to 1+ ▪ Weight gain for 2 consecutive days Discharge when there is no OTP MUAC >115mm Clinically well And 15% weight gain And No oedema for two consecutive visits (if admitted with oedema) Other reasons for exit Died Child died while in inpatient care Defaulter Child is absent from in-patient care for 2 consecutive days Medical referral out of programme Where the medical condition