months old (you do not know exactly), and is your youngest. You have five other children. Your husband died about a year ago after a long illness. • You breastfeed her, but you do not feel very well yourself and the baby does not seem to get any milk. You give her maize porridge and sometimes cow’s milk, but she does not have much appetite and is now thin. • She has had runny diarrhoea for the past week, and this is not the first time. Every time she has diarrhoea, you stop breastfeeding. • The CHW in your village measured your child with a tape and pressed her feet. He told you that your child was thin. He said you must go to the clinic on Thursday, and they would give you some special food and medicine for your child. He gave you a piece of paper with something written on it and told you to give it to the nurse, but you do not know what it says exactly, because you cannot read. • You are willing to go to the clinic even though it is a three-hour walk because you heard from other mothers in your village that the clinic is giving a special peanut paste food for thin and swollen children. You hope your visit to the clinic will be worth it this time. You have been there before and never had a good experience. You hope that the nurse will make your child well and that you will get some food. • You should wait for the nurse to ask you questions about your child and her condition. If the nurse does not ask, you can tell him/her a few things and hope this will lead to more questions. Outpatient Care Nurse: • You are a nurse, and run the CMAM outpatient care services at your clinic every Thursday. • A mother presents with a thin baby. • You ask for the referral slip from the CHW, which shows a red MUAC. The child has already been weighed and is 4.5 kg. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 86 • You take the MUAC again and find it to be 109 mm. Then take a medical history and ask the mother questions about her child’s condition. • Follow the outpatient care treatment card and make sure you conduct a thorough