by air, and the cost fell to less than $400,000 (Komrska 2012124). In addition, WFP and a range of agencies engaged in nutrition, including UNICEF, collaborated on guidelines for managing the supply chain of specialised nutritious foods125 (e.g. ready to use 124 Komrska, J., 2012, ‘Increasing Access to Ready to Use Therapeutic Foods (RUTF),’ http://www.nutriset.fr/Downloads/ PFE-RUTF-Increasing-access.pdf. 125 WFP et al, 2014, ‘Managing the Supply of Specialized Nutritious Foods’, http://www.wfp.org/aid-professionals/blog/blog/supplychain-guide-nutritious-food. emergency admissions; and (c) calculates actual freight costs, based on yearly review of its usability and the accuracy of forecasts. Systematic annual supply forecasting is already helping to improve the prediction of needs and therefore prevent global shortages. However, predicting target caseloads, either extrapolated from previous years’ admissions or indirectly from secondary data, remains challenging and can lead to overor under-estimations of need. Furthermore, the influences of funding flows and unpredicted emergencies remain. The tool remains under regular review and is now incorporated into the global Nutridash data collection process, facilitating global analysis of supply needs and actual beneficiary reach to continue to improve forecasting. • Improved information flow: The yearly forecast also provides a valuable management tool for identifying which countries need additional support to strengthen programme planning, monitoring and reporting. The estimates help improve communications about management of SAM programmes between the Supply Division, headquarters, regional offices and COs. At country level, initiatives using RapidSMS which takes advantage of mobile phone technology are also promising to improve reporting on both stock and programme admissions. Examples of the potential for using RapidSMS can be found at www.rapidsms.org/. • Global system for ongoing monitoring of lead time, landed cost and quality of and access to RUTF: Supply Division has put in place information on performance monitoring of suppliers. Score cards on on-time deliveries are shared with suppliers regularly, and contract allocations take into consideration their past performance. The results of these developments have been dramatic. In 2008, nearly 35 per cent of RUTF purchased by UNICEF had to be transported by air, at a cost of $8.5 million, to reach beneficiaries Main findings of Horn of Africa supply chain review (Duke University 2009) 1. The time between a CO placing an order and the order reaching the national port by surface transport varied from 40-120 days (on average 80 days, which is too long a delay during rapid-onset emergencies. Additional time must be allowed to clear customs and deliver RUTF to