Place the child on the front of the mother / caretaker with the mothers / caretakers arms wrapped round the child. The mother / caretaker and the child are wrapped in blankets together. Give hot drinks to the mother / caretaker so her skin gets warmer • Put a hat on the child as most heat is lost through the head • Do not use a hot water bottle – this is too dangerous • Place a heater or lamp nearby • Ensure that the room is not cold • Treat for hypoglycaemia and give second line antibiotic. • Monitor body temperature during re-warming. xcix National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Dermatosis of Kwashiorkor Dermatosis presents in children with severe kwashiorkor. It often spontaneously resolves with nutritional treatment. The zinc supplement contained in the nutritional treatment is particularly important in these children, as they are usually severely zinc deficient. Diagnosis of dermatosis • Hypo-or hyperpigmentation • Desquamation • Ulceration (spreading over limbs, thighs, genitalia, groin, and behind the ears) • Lesions (resembling severe burns) often with secondary infection, including Candida Treatment of dermatosis • Atrophy of the skin in the perineum leads to severe nappy dermatitis, especially if the child has diarrhoea. The nappy area should be left uncovered. If the nappy area becomes colonized with Candida spp., it should be treated with nystatin ointment or cream (100000 IU (1 g)) twice daily for 2 weeks and the child should be given oral nystatin (100 000 IU four times daily). • In other affected areas, application of zinc and castor oil ointment, petroleum jelly or paraffin gauze dressings helps to relieve pain and prevent infection. • Bathe the affected areas in 1% potassium permanganate solution for 10–15 minutes daily. This dries the lesions, helps to prevent loss of serum, and inhibits infection. • Polyvidone iodine, 10% ointment, can also be used. It should be used sparingly, however, if the lesions are extensive, as there is significant systemic absorption. • All children with kwashiorkor-related dermatosis should receive systemic antibiotics c National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Absent bowel sounds, gastric dilation and intestinal splash with abdominal distention Treatment • Give first and second line antibiotic treatment by intra-muscular injection. • Consider adding third line antibiotics. • Stop all other