appropriate and quality treatment for SAM among all eligible children in the community at all times8 4. Aid the formulation and implementation of national policies and strategies that support objectives 1 to 3 5. Aid the creation of an enabling environment that supports objectives 1 to 3 through advocacy, documentation of successful practices, support for operational research, mobilization of resources and collaboration with partners This guidance document is not meant to offer a prescription for achieving scale-up. It provides guidance on processes and a summary of measures that have proved successful in supporting sustainable scale-up within existing health systems and increasing access to treatment in other contexts. Text boxes in this document illustrate particular guidance points and good practices. Of course, what works is specific to the context and the time, so the examples focus on mechanisms and structures rather than specific actions. The guidance document also provides background information for SAM management programming, 7 See definitions, box 33, page 59 8 See definitions, box 33, page 59 © UNICEF/NYHQ2010-0802/Holt UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 4 This guidance focuses on the main client group for management of SAM – children 6–59 months old. Infants are covered only under the inpatient component. (See annex F, Management of SAM in Other Groups, for discussions about and links to the best current guidance and resources for infants and other client groups.) Even though the wider management of SAM encompasses management of moderate acute malnutrition (MAM) where possible, the document does not attempt to provide operational guidance for managing MAM, given that questions remain on protocols and appropriate approaches. At the same time, the specific relationship between SAM and MAM services, and the relative need for services, should be based on consultative assessments at the country level with the World Food Programme (WFP) and stakeholders. Audience The intended audience of this document is UNICEF programme managers at the country level (health and nutrition specialists) and their main government partners (ministries of health and nutrition managers) in countries attempting national scale-up of SAM management. The contents may also be of interest to other government institutions involved in the management of SAM, other United Nations agencies and NGO staff operating at the country level. RUTF Production Links with interventions to prevent acute malnutrition Management of MAM Outpatient Management of SAM Inpatient Management of SAM FIGURE 1 Components of community-based management of acute malnutrition Community Mobilization PLANNING THE