and pregnant and lactating women Annex 8: Key Messages for OTP ▪ RUTF is food and medicine for malnourished children only. It should not be shared ▪ Sick children often don’t want to eat. Give small regular meals of RUTF and encourage the child to eat often (8 times a day is possible) ▪ Your child should have XX amount of RUTF a day ▪ RUTF is the only food your child needs to recover during the time in OTP ▪ Breastfeed before giving RUTF. Young children should continue to breast feed regularly ▪ Always offer plenty of breast milk or clean water to drink while eating RUTF. RUTF makes children thirsty and your child will need to drink more than normal. ▪ Use soap to wash your child’s hands before eating if possible. ▪ Keep food clean and covered ▪ When a child has diarrhea, never stop feeding. Give extra food and extra clean water. Notes: The caretaker should be asked to repeat back the messages the check they have been understood. As the child nears the end of their treatment in OTP, other foods can be given in addition to the RUTF. These messages are basic essential messages for OTP. They can be supplemented with other health and education messages during follow up visits and in the community. lxxv National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Annex 9: Routine medical protocol for OTP Drug When Age/Weight Prescription Dose VITAMIN A* At admission 6 months to < 1 year 100 000 IU Single dose on admission. ≥ 1 year 200 000 IU AMOXYCILLIN At admission 2-12 months (4-10kg) Syrup 125 mg 5ml 3 times/day for 5 days 12months-5 years (10-19kg) Syrup 125mg 10ml At admission in malarial areas or if symptoms All beneficiaries > 2 months old See malaria protocol On admission ANTI MALARIAL MEBENDAZOLE** Second visit < 1 year DO NOT GIVE None 12-23 months 250 mg Single dose on second visit ≥ 2 years 500 mg MEASLES VACCINATION On week 4 From 9 months Standard Once on week 4 IRON/FOLIC ACID *** On day 14 for mild/moderate anaemia > 2 months old See iron/folic acid protocol Give one dose daily for 14 days * VITAMIN A: Do not give, if the child has already received Vitamin A in the last one month. ** ALBENDAZOLE: Albendazole may be