bilateral pitting oedema checks • Anthropometry: MUAC, weight, and height/length recorded on admission; weight is also measured daily • Clinical data/findings: results of daily medical assessments (because deterioration can occur quickly, it is essential to record medical findings and other information to make a correct diagnosis and provide timely treatment) • Medicines: the medicines given and when they were given are recorded (Note: medical staff should directly observe the medicine being taken, the child’s response to the medicine and the outcome) • Feeding information: type and proportion of the therapeutic food the child consumes and any instances of vomiting Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 100 Module 5 Learning Objective 4: Practice the Referral Process Between Inpatient Care and Outpatient Care TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 5.5 Discharge Criteria and Exit Categories for CMAM, Handout 5.7 Practical Implications in Discharges from Inpatient Care, and Exercise 5.1 Referral from Inpatient to Outpatient Care. REVIEW: REFERRALS FROM INPATIENT CARE. In plenary, ask participants to name discharge criteria that would indicate a discharge from inpatient care to outpatient care. If participants have difficulty responding, remind them to refer to Handout 5.5 Discharge Criteria and Exit Categories for At-Risk Mothers and Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: REFERRALS BETWEEN INPATIENT AND OUTPATIENT CARE. Explain to participants that the main focus of these modules is on outpatient care, which includes referrals from inpatient to outpatient care. However, there are several cases where patients will be discharged to other settings. Outline to participants the key points regarding discharges from inpatient care to tertiary care and discharges that exit CMAM services as found in Handout 5.7 Practical Implications in Discharges from Inpatient Care. Remind participants that an effective referral system between inpatient care and outpatient care is essential for the smooth functioning of CMAM services. Note that it is helpful for inpatient care staff to visit outpatient care sites and vice versa. Outline the key points in Handout 5.7. Ask participants if they have any other key points to add. BRAINSTORM: REFERRALS FROM INPATIENT TO OUTPATIENT CARE. Ask participants to think of key actions that should accompany the discharge of patients from inpatient care to outpatient care. Write responses on a flip chart. Fill in the gap in responses with the key points outlined in Handout 5.7, Section D. PRACTICE: REFERRALS FROM INPATIENT TO OUTPATIENT CARE. Ask participants