or preparation. RUTF does not contain water and cannot be contaminated. For these reasons RUTF can be successfully and safely used at home for the treatment of SAM. RUTF used in OTP must be approved by the Ministry of Health and meet national standards. Key information messages are given to the caretakers of children admitted to OTP on how to use the RUTF including the importance of regular feeding in small amounts and the need for plenty of clean drinking water. These messages are important. The caretaker should repeat back the key messages to the health care provider to make sure the messages have been understood. CAUTION Ready to use therapeutic food (RUTF) is an energy and nutrient dense paste especially designed for the rehabilitation of severe acute malnutrition. This should not be confused with other pastes packaged in sachets or pots which look like RUTF. Other nutrient dense pastes such as ready to use food for children (RUF-C) are designed for the prevention of acute malnutrition. These products MUST NOT be used instead of RUTF for the treatment of SAM. Medical treatment in OTP Routine medicines are given to all children enrolled in OTP. ▪ Treatment is based on the principles of drug treatment for severe acute malnutrition and is based on IMNCI and national protocols. ▪ Where possible medicines should be given as a single dose so that the health care provider can observe them being taken. ▪ First line antibiotic is Amoxicillin. Amoxicillin dose is according to national protocols. The health care provider should give the first dose of Amoxicillin at admission to the OTP. A clear explanation should be provided to the caretaker on how to continue treatment of antibiotics at home. The caretaker should then repeat the instructions back to the health care provider to make sure they have been well understood. ▪ Mebendazole(or Albendazole) is given as a single dose on the second visit to OTP. ▪ Vitamin A is given at admission except for those who have received vitamin A in the last one month. ▪ Measles vaccine is given to all children above 6 months at the 4th week of treatment. The Health care provider should encourage the vaccination of all other eligible unvaccinated children in the household. This will reduce the mortality risk of the unvaccinated child 1 Imported RUTF is made from peanut paste, milk powder, vegetable oil and sugar.