outreach worker]). Example 3 (Florence Phiri): Infant Under 6 Months Requires Referral to Inpatient Care The pre-filled C-MAMI outpatient care treatment card (to the third week) shows that the infant is not breastfeeding effectively, and not gaining weight. The infant was referred to inpatient care on the second Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 83 week but mother refused referral. On the third week of outpatient care follow-on session, the infant still weighs 3.4 kg, is unwell and not breastfeeding. (Participants should determine that the infants requires referral to inpatient, the mother will need intensive counselling and support on what to expect and experience in inpatient care. Participants should fill out the C-MAMI outpatient care treatment card accordingly, noting what action would be taken [referral, counselling and support]). GROUP DISCUSSION: DISCHARGE PROCESS. Ask participants to think through specific actions to take in the process of discharge from outpatient care. Write answers on the flip chart. If participants have trouble naming actions, provide coaching to elicit the responses, below: • The child 6-59 months is given a ration of RUTF to support transition to family food. (This usually consists of approximately seven 92-gram packets of RUTF.) • The immunisation status is checked and updated. • Make sure the infant or child has received all required medicines (e.g., antibiotics). Give any vaccinations (e.g., measles, other EPI) that were not provided earlier. • The mother/caregiver is given guidance on care practices and asked to return if the infant’s or child’s condition deteriorates. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 84 Module 4 Learning Objective 10: Describe Linkages Between Outpatient Care and Other Services, Programmes, and Initiatives TRAINER: Review Handout 1.11 Integrating CMAM into Routine Health Services at the District Level. If this content was covered in depth in Module One, it can be briefly reviewed here. WORKING GROUPS: LINKING OUTPATIENT CARE TO OTHER SERVICES. Note to participants that outpatient care provides a good opportunity to link the management of SAM to other services, including prevention programmes such as growth monitoring and promotion (GMP). Linkages can and should be made with IMCI, postnatal care, national level or nongovernmental organisation (NGO) food distribution programmes, programmes to manage MAM, immunisations and Vitamin A supplementation, family planning, water and sanitation, health and nutrition education, malaria and HIV treatment, food security and livelihoods programmes, and other support services. Ask