consumption, household dietary diversity, food insecurity experience scale, coping strategies, health, agriculture, markets and so on). Therefore, it is proposed that such an assessment be undertaken periodically every three years to update data and assess programmatic progress on interventions, their outcomes, and remaining needs. In the event of emergencies, including man-made disasters, the assessment could be conducted even earlier. These recommendations are based upon a review of evidence from a variety of sources, including consultation with key line departments, development partners and a debriefing exercise with the Field Staff engaged in the data collection process. Members of the Coordination Committee also provided essential advice. The recommendations presented here address the interpretation of needs and priorities identified and are based on the best current information. We strongly encourage the relevant parties to consider these recommendations in the planning and implementation process of future interventions. Policy Level For the Merged Areas, the permanent return of formerly displaced populations is an ongoing and challenging process. The Tribal Decade Strategy (TDS)/Accelerated Implementation Plan (AIP) is intended to make returns sustainable through the establishment of linkages between humanitarian recovery period assistance with long term development programmes. While development actions are being designed and implemented, there remains a pressing need to maintain and increase support to the Merged Areas, across a range of social and economic issues in order to make returns viable and sustainable. The scale and cost of these actions should diminish over the course of the Accelerated Implementation Plan (AIP) period as structural issues are addressed through development assistance and reforms. In future iterations, CFSLA should be more inclusive of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) indicators. For example, Prevalence of Undernourishment (PoU) and more gender disaggregated information on all dimension of food security, should be monitored in close consultation with all relevant stakeholders, including research institutions, to meet their information and research needs. Efforts should also be made to make CFSLA a regular feature of the Government Planning process and required resources should be shared by the Government through allocation of resources in the Annual Development Plans (ADP) by the Planning & Development Department to implement activities related to food security assessments. This will allow the government to design specific food security policies/interventions including all aspects of food security. Given the complex and multi-dimensional nature of food insecurity, federal and provincial governments, UN agencies, INGOs and other relevant stakeholders should closely coordinate and jointly