of the nutritional status of girls, boys and women from effects of humanitarian situations • Increased capacity of governments and partners, as duty-bearers, to identify and respond to key human rights and gender equality dimensions of nutrition • Enhanced global and regional capacity to accelerate progress in child nutrition BOX 31 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 50 on to provide support at the national level rather than just in one or two districts. They may be asked to provide support in a range of areas: building the capacity of national institutions for pre-service and in-service training for CMAM; supporting monitoring and supervision systems for programme quality, particularly in coverage monitoring; and testing new ideas and technologies for addressing bottlenecks, such as those in monitoring, referral mechanisms or community mobilization. Conversely, in countries with hard-to-access communities (e.g., Somalia, the Sudan) working with more local or national NGOs may help to integrate the scale-up of CMAM more closely into community structures. Forging partnerships with national institutions such as universities, paediatric associations, training centres and medical schools is important to maintain links between inpatient and outpatient components and contribute to sustainable scaleup and ownership. These are critical to effective implementation at the community level and to facilitate the integration of management of SAM into pre-service trainings. At the global and country level, UNICEF strives to maintain independence from its suppliers and therefore does not promote specific partnerships with RUTF manufacturers, including for local production of RUTF. At the global level, UNICEF has a number of partnerships relevant to the management of SAM. UNICEF is a key Global Nutrition Cluster partner, serving on the Strategic Advisory Group. UNICEF also participated as a member of the MAM task force under the GNC and participates in GNC initiatives to harmonize emergency nutrition response. UNICEF and WHO co-chair the integration task force that aims to support integration of the management of SAM into health systems. UNICEF works most closely with WFP and WHO in terms of management of acute malnutrition. An excerpt (see page 60). UNICEF is also one of the key members on the Steering Committee for the CMAM forum (see page 54), helping to direct its design and establishment. At country level UNICEF supports management of SAM from a programmatic point of view. This support, which can be technical and material (e.g., supplies, equipment, financial), concentrates on capacity building of government structures and services for management