facilitated by the Institute of Management Sciences (IMS) University of Peshawar under the overall supervision of the BOS Merged Areas. A total of 112 experienced Field Staff were engaged in the field level data collection, in addition 24 Enumerators were engaged in the household listing activity. Prior to the data collection a detailed orientation on the survey tool and methodology was organized for all Field staff. Technical staff from WFP and BOS Merged Areas jointly facilitated 3-day orientations, organised in two batches for the Field Staff engaged in the households’ level data collection as well as the market survey. Each team consisted of 5 to 6 members with female representation where possible. Each Team had one Team Supervisor mainly responsible for conducting FGD and to provide guidance to the rest of the team members. Data Entry and Analysis WFP VAM Unit developed a CSPro based data entry application for the data entry. A total of 8 data entry operators were engaged in the data entry process. Training on the data entry software was provided to all data entry operators. WFP VAM unit in support of the BOS Merged Areas carried out all the data analysis. Technical staff from WFP, BOS Merged Areas and IMS jointly reviewed the preliminary findings for almost a week. During this exercise the findings were validated with the already available secondary information. The findings were then shared with the members of the Coordination Committee (CC) for their review and feedback20. Two generally accepted analytical approaches have been adopted to establish the degree of food security. First, the Consolidated Approach for Reporting Indicators on Food Security [CARI] is a WFP specific methodology launched by WFP Headquarters in 2014. CARI has an advantage over previously applied methods because it aggregates two important dimensions of households’ food security, namely food consumption and coping capacity. The former is an indicator of current food security and the latter is a combined result of the food expenditure share (an indicator of economic vulnerability) and livelihood coping. The second approach to measure prevalence of moderate or 20 Constituted by the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa for smooth implementation of the survey, the Committee is being Chaired by Mr. Shah Mahmood Khan, Additional Secretary P&DD, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 20190716_175900.jpg Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 10 severe food insecurity known as the Food Insecurity Experience Scale (FIES), was also