Learning Objective 3: Complete Site Tally Sheets and Site and District Reports; Interpret the Findings TRAINER: Review Handout 8.3 Monitoring and Reporting on CMAM and become familiar with Handout 8.5 Site Tally Sheet for the Management of SAM and Nutritionally Vulnerable Infants Under 6 Months, Handout 8.6 Site Report Sheet for the Management of SAM and Nutritionally Vulnerable Infants Under 6 Months, Handout 8.7 District or National Reporting Sheet for the Management of SAM and Nutritionally Vulnerable Infants Under 6 Months, Exercise 8.1 Outpatient Care Site Tally Sheet and Site Reporting Sheet and Exercise 8.2 Completing Outpatient Care Site Tally Sheet. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: ROUTINE DATA COLLECTION. Routine service data are recorded on site tally sheets at each site, based on quantitative data recorded after each session. The site tally sheets are compiled in site and district reporting sheets. District reports combine the information from the different health facilities in the district that provided CMAM services. District reports inform the national reporting sheets and report system. The CMAM reporting systems can be a compilation of reporting sheets (hard copies) or entered in an electronic database (Excel spreadsheet). Emphasise to participants the importance of inpatient and outpatient care sites using standardized reporting sheets so that the service’s overall effectiveness can be precisely monitored. Note: At the end of every outpatient care session outpatient care treatment cards for new admissions and new exits are used to fill the site tally sheet for that session. New admissions are tallied based on their entry category (per admission criterion and age group or per age group only). New exits are tallied based on their exit category (cured, died, defaulted, non-recovered). Depending on the site tally sheet used, referrals from inpatient care to outpatient care could be tallied as an admission (under referral from inpatient care) or separately from new admissions as “moved in.” GROUP DISCUSSION: QUANTITATIVE DATA FROM SITE TALLY SHEETS. Ask participants if they have ever used tally sheets in their work and, if so, what they were using the tally sheets to track. Refer participants to Handout 8.5 Site Tally Sheet for the Management of SAM and Nutritionally Vulnerable Infants Under 6 Months and ask them to examine how the outpatient care site tally sheet considers the quantitative data they record. While referencing the sheet, ask participants where the following categories of children would belong: • Children under 5 who are referred from supplementary