appropriate methodology will depend on the specific context. These methods, outlined in more detail in annex C, Direct Coverage Assessment, enable direct assessment of treatment coverage at the district, regional and even national level, but also have limitations that need to be taken into account. Information on geographic distribution of coverage enables identification of the main barriers to coverage and actions that can be undertaken without major resources. (UNICEF, CMN, and ACF 2012. See also The State of Global SAM Management Coverage.)33 Scaling up management of SAM is a complex undertaking, and bottlenecks can emerge in several areas. They are most commonly encountered in dealing with the enabling environment, in terms of policies and practices, and in supply, demand and quality. 33 UNICEF, CMN, and ACF, 2012, ‘The State of Global SAM Management Coverage’, www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/ The-State-of-SAM-Management-Coverage-2012.pdf. how well programmes are fulfilling their objective of reaching all eligible children, and therefore it provides little information on programme impact. Indirect estimates of treatment coverage can also be generated and added to analysis of programme scale-up, but they rely on often secondary data, which has its limitations.32 Thus conclusions based on indirect estimates should be interpreted with extreme caution (see annex A for discussion and standard calculations). At the same time, there may be limited resources to conduct a specific direct coverage assessment. Indirect methods do not supply information on why coverage is poor, information that is needed to maximize performance and therefore impact. That level of information can however be gathered through bottleneck analysis from routine data. The latest innovations in direct assessment of treatment coverage offer the potential to periodically monitor certain aspects of coverage for use in programme planning and development. These are Semi Quantitative Evaluation of Access 32 For definition see box 33. Guidance point: Coverage and effectiveness Coverage and effectiveness depend upon the same things and are linked with each other. • Effective programmes have high coverage, and high-coverage programmes have high cure rates. • Good coverage supports good effectiveness. Therefore maximizing coverage maximizes effectiveness and met need. BOX 16 FIGURE 4 Relationship between effectiveness and coverage Source: Myatt, M, 2012. Effective programs have high coverage Effectiveness Coverage High coverage programs have high cure rates UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 30 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 30 Good practices for addressing bottlenecks in scaling up 3 Enabling environment Political Commitment and policy Political commitment and leadership determine whether management of