Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 86 • You take the MUAC again and find it to be 109 mm. Then take a medical history and ask the mother questions about her child’s condition. • Follow the outpatient care treatment card and make sure you conduct a thorough assessment, including a medical examination and RUTF appetite test, so that you can completely fill in the outpatient care treatment card with the necessary information. Fill in the outpatient care treatment card and, if necessary, ask the mother questions to help fill in any gaps. • Determine what action is needed: admission to outpatient care, referral to inpatient care, or referral to supplementary feeding. • If you decide to admit the child to outpatient care, make sure to discuss key messages with the mother. Take note of what the mother tells you when you discuss her child’s condition; this will help you to know which messages to emphasise. • If you give RUTF, determine how much is needed according to the child’s weight. Fill in the RUTF ration card with all applicable information. • Tell the mother about the importance to continue breastfeeding, and before every RUTF feeding. Direct her to increase the number of breast feeds when the baby has diarrhoea. Provide guidance on strengthening lactation. Suggested Method: Review of learning objectives and completion of evaluation form • Review the learning objectives of the module. In this module, we have: 1. Described outpatient care for the management of SAM without medical complications 2. Described outpatient care admission criteria (infants under 6 months and children 6–59 months) 3. Described the process for admissions and weekly outpatient care follow-on sessions for children 6–59 months) 4. Explained medical treatment for the management of children with SAM without medical complications in outpatient care 5. Explained nutrition rehabilitation for the management of SAM without medical complications in outpatient care (children 6–59 months) 6. Described the key messages given to mothers/caregivers of children 6–59 months during outpatient care 7. Explained the management of at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months of age without medical complications in outpatient care. 8. Used an action protocol to determine when additional action is needed 9. Explained discharge criteria and procedures for at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months and children 6–59 months 10. Described linkages between outpatient care and other services, programmes, and initiatives • Ask for any questions