sample sizes (e.g., n ≤ 40) are required in order to make an accurate and reliable classification. SLEAC can also estimate coverage over several service delivery units, hence it is ideal for coverage survey of wide areas. Coverage is still classified for individual service delivery units. Then, data from individual service delivery units are combined and coverage for this wider area is estimated from this combined sample. SLEAC was originally developed as a companion method for SQUEAC but has recently been used for mapping of coverage classes in service delivery units over very wide areas. Design SLEAC uses a systematic spatial sample similar to that used in CSAS. Only small sample sizes (n ≤ 40) are required for each service delivery unit in which coverage is being classified. Results SLEAC yields the following results: • Overall coverage classification • Can be used over wide areas to provide local coverage classifications with a coverage map and a wide area estimates • Ranked list of barriers Figure 12 shows a map of coverage class for all administrative districts in an MoH-delivered CMAM programme in Sierra Leone. SLEAC also provides output similar to figure 9. It is typical to use SLEAC to identify areas for further investigation using the SQUEAC method (figures 13 and 14) Simple Spatial Survey Method (S3M) S3M is a development of CSAS for very wide area usage. The key features of S3M are: • Triangular irregular network rather than a grid sample • Highly efficient use of sample (c. 6x reuse of data) • Lower cost than CSAS (10 x area of 2 x cost) • Maps a ‘coverage surface’ FIGURE 11 Coverage mapping by risk mapping Legend Low (<20%) Moderate (20% to 50%) High (> 50%) Kambia Kailahun Kenema Pujehum Bo Koinadugu Bombali Tonkolili Kono Moyamba Bonthe Port Loko Urban Western Peri-urban ANNEX C 85 Start SLEAC surveys SQUEAC investigation(s) Reform program Stop Coverage OK? YES NO Start SLEAC surveys Compare & contrast Reform program Coverage OK? SQUEAC investigation(s) SQUEAC investigation(s) YES NO Using SLEAC and SQUEAC in failing service delivery units Using SLEAC and SQUEAC in succeeding and failing service delivery units FIGURE 13 FIGURE 14 Coverage map produced by the S3M method FIGURE 15 • Automatic smoothing of data • Simple to understand • Simple enough for NGOs/MoHs to do Design S3M uses a two-stage sampling design. First stage is a systematic spatial sample using triangular