forecasting include: • Registering RUTF as an essential supply/ commodity. This will allow the MoH to facilitate clearance of supplies at port and allow government storage at central medical stores and government-led distribution and logistics. Commodities and logistics Common supply and logistics bottlenecks include: RUTF pipeline breaks. Interruptions in supplies of RUTF can have a devastating effect on community confidence in the programme. Where pipeline breaks have occurred, they have been reported as one of the major barriers to achieving coverage. While some pipeline breaks are attributed to shortage in global supplies and issues of customs clearance, the majority result from insufficient buffer stocks, late reporting of requests and poor forecasting. Data problems. Difficulties in planning/forecasting can result from using calculations based on population, SAM prevalence and estimated coverage, which are fraught with inaccuracies. They can also be due to planning based on data on RUTF consumption, which doesn’t reflect increases in caseload due to programme expansion, seasonal surges in numbers, intensification of mobilization activities or the use of RUTF for other target groups, such as children with MAM. Unpredictable funding. This inhibits a country’s ability to plan procurement of therapeutic supplies, equipment and other commodities. Good practice: Addressing training issues • Hold integrated trainings. These are useful to manage training resources more efficiently and minimize the time spent out of service. One example is conducting refresher training on management of SAM for staff already familiar with the approach alongside training on IYCF (see annex E for materials). Another example is covering SAM in the training package for community health workers. • Hold inclusive trainings. Where high health staff turnover is an issue, all staff in a facility should be trained so they can be rotated and can orient new staff. • Focus on district health teams. It is useful to start implementation of the approach with district health teams. Once they have the skills, they can train others, allowing for future staff to be trained from within. This reduces the burden on national trainers and builds ownership and skills at the local level. • Use learning sites. With learning sites or training grounds in districts, trainees can see good practices being demonstrated and practise their own skills. • Integrate management of SAM into pre-service training. The priority measure for addressing training needs is to integrate management of SAM into pre-service training for health and nutrition staff, working directly with