(shock). IV fluids should only be used by a skilled health worker who is experienced in the care of severely malnourished children. Pediatric doses: Care should be taken in the calculation of weight related paediatric dosing of medications. Preparation of commercially prepared F75 ▪ Add one packet (410g) of F75 to two litres of boiled slightly warm water and mix. ▪ Where a few children are being treated use the red scoop in the packet (20ml of water per one red scoop). xxix National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Feeding techniques in inpatient care Feeding technique and communication with caretakers Muscle weakness and slow swallowing in severely malnourished children makes aspiration and pneumonia common. The child should sit on the caretaker’s lap against her/his chest (see picture). F75 should be given by cup. Bottles should NEVER be used. The child should not be force fed. Other food should not be given and this must be clearly communicated to caretakers. Giving other food can be dangerous. It is important to communicate clearly with caretakers so that they fully understand the treatment and how to feed their children. Caretakers may be anxious about the child. Caretakers should be engaged as much as possible in the care of the children. Meal times should be sociable so that caretakers can talk to and support each other. Nurses and assistants should correct any faulty feeding techniques. Meals for caretakers should be provided in a separate area if possible. Naso-gastric tube feeding Naso-gastic tube feeding (NGT) is used when the child is not taking sufficient diet by mouth. This is defined as intake less than 75% of the prescribed diet of 100 Kcal / kg / day. The reasons for use of an NG tube are: ▪ Taking less than 75% of the prescribed diet per 24 hours ▪ Pneumonia with rapid respiration rate ▪ Painful lesions of the mouth ▪ Cleft palate or other physical deformity ▪ Disturbances of consciousness Monitoring the condition of the child Children who require in-patient care can deteriorate quickly. It is essential to monitor them closely so that any deterioration in their clinical condition can be picked up rapidly. Ensure that all the following information is completed on the in-patient care. F75 by mouth should be tried every day patiently before use of NGT. The use of the NGT