Positive Deviance PHC primary health care PLHIV people living with HIV PMTCT prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV PRA Participatory Rural Appraisal QHP Quality Health Partners ReSoMal Rehydration Solution for Malnutrition RRA Rapid Rural Appraisal RUF ready-to-use food Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version x RUSF ready-to-use supplementary food RUTF ready-to-use therapeutic food SAM severe acute malnutrition SC stabilisation centre SC-USA Save the Children USA SD standard deviation SFP supplementary feeding programme SMART Standardised Monitoring and Assessment for Relief and Transition SNNPR Southern Nations, Nationalities, and People’s Region SQUEAC semi-quantitative evaluation of access and coverage SST supplementary suckling technique SWOT strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats TB Tuberculosis TF task force TFC therapeutic feeding centre UN United Nations UNICEF United Nations Children’s Fund UN/SCN United Nations System Standing Committee on Nutrition USAID United States Agency for International Development VCT voluntary counselling and testing WFA weight-for-age WFH weight-for-height WFL weight-for-length WFP World Food Programme WHO World Health Organisation WSB wheat-soy blend Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 1 TRAINER’S GUIDE 1. Training Participants and Trainers Participants The training guide is designed for health care managers and health care providers who manage, supervise, and implement services for the management of SAM. This includes health care providers who are involved in health outreach activities (e.g., health outreach coordinators, community mobilisation coordinators, district supervisors for community health workers [CHWs]). It will also be useful for Ministry of Health (MOH) officials at the national, regional, and district levels; health and nutrition programme managers and technical staff of nongovernmental organisations (NGOs); and United Nations (U.N.) technical staff involved in the management of acute malnutrition in children. The guide is designed to be adapted for the target audience when necessary. Trainers/Facilitators At least two trainers/facilitators per 15–25 participants should lead the training. The trainers should be familiar with CMAM and experienced in the practical application of community-based outpatient care for SAM. This overview module contains guidance for trainers/facilitators on planning the course and describes the communication and training methods used in the guide. Training in the Classroom and the Field The training methods and activities used throughout the modules will be practical and participatory, building on participants’ knowledge, skills, and experience. In addition to the written materials and practical exercises in the classroom, some of the training modules include fieldwork in communities, health facilities, and outpatient and inpatient