programmes in Guatemala and Burundi that also included family food assistance, a specialized nutritious food for mother and child, and upgraded health services,x as shown in the below table. The estimates for Pakistan will be further refined when the endline results have become available which will report the impact on stunting for children who will have had longer exposure to the program. From the perspective of preventing undernutrition and its different consequences, covering the full period until 24 months of age, is best. Furthermore, the cohort study found a very remarkable 7 percent reduction of small vulnerable newborn births which is very important for child survival as well as for health and development in the shorter and longer term. Table 1. Cost of 1,000 days programs to prevent stunting, per person until 24 months of age and per percentage point stunting reduction achieved in Guatemala, Burundi and, based on preliminary results, for Pakistan. Pakistan Guatemala Burundi Cost for 1,000 days, from pregnancy to 24 months of age (US$/person) 785 1080 765 Cost per percentage point reduction of stunting achieved (US$/person/percentage point) 38-971 97 103 It is important to note that delivering a good quality and comprehensive package comes at a cost, and that alternative lower cost packages and delivery options can be explored, but that these will need to show comparable results when implemented at scale. Furthermore, achieving impact also requires good compliance by participants, in the case of Nashonuma by visiting the FCs, meeting the conditionalities and consuming the SNF per instructions. Implementing a program at scale that does not deliver results would not only be a waste of resources but also deprive people in need of important benefits. 1The 20% reduction of stunting prevalence at 6 months of age among the cohort is equivalent to 7.8 percentage points, based on 39% stunting among infants aged 6 months in the lowest two wealth quintiles across Pakistan (National Nutrition Survey 2018 results, shared by AKU). This reduction was achieved after approximately 11 months of enrolment, starting in ~4th month of gestation. This is equivalent to an investment of 11/29months x 785US$/7.8=38 US$/person/percentage point. The cross-sectional study observed 6.4 percentage points less stunting among enrolled children aged 6-23 month. Duration of program enrolment of these children, including the participation of their mother, differed and they had not yet reached 24 months of age. Assuming enrolment from 4th month of gestation and