Access Role-Play, and Exercise 3.2 Overcoming Obstacles to Community Participation in CMAM. BUZZ GROUPS AND PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: WHAT IS COMMUNITY OUTREACH IN THE CONTEXT OF CMAM? If participants took part in Module One, ask them to form groups of 2-3 and quickly describe what they know about community outreach in the context of CMAM. Ask a few volunteers to briefly respond and fill in the gaps in the discussion with Handout 3.1 Principles of Community Outreach in the Context of CMAM, Sections 1-3. Make particular note of these key activities of community outreach in the context of CMAM: 1) community mobilisation, 2) active casefinding for early detection and referral, 3) home visits for follow-up of high-risk cases [i.e., those not thriving or responding, absentees, and defaulters], and 4) linking with other community services, programmes, and initiatives. Explain that this training module looks at how to most effectively establish these four characteristics through a four-step process. Write the following four steps on a flip chart so that they can be referred to throughout the module. GROUP DISCUSSION: THE POWER OF COMMUNITY OUTREACH. Draw Figure 3.1 (below) on the flip chart and review the components of CMAM. Ask participants why community outreach surrounds the other components. Fill in gaps in the discussion, noting that community outreach feeds into and is necessary for the other components to function well. Experience with CMAM has demonstrated repeatedly that provision of outpatient care without community outreach will rarely result in high service or programme service access and uptake (or service coverage). Therefore, case-finding and referral at the community level are necessary to ensure that coverage reaches acceptable levels (i.e., the Sphere standards: 70% in urban and camp settings and >50% in rural settings) and that acute malnutrition is identified and presented early, which lead to good clinical outcomes and decreased strain on inpatient facilities. Step One: Community Assessment Step Two: Formulation of Community Outreach Strategy Step Three: Development of Messages and Materials Step Four: Community Mobilisation and Training Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 45 Figure 1. Core Components of CMAM BRAINSTORM AND GROUP DISCUSSION: OBSTACLES TO PARTICIPATION IN CMAM. Ask participants to think of obstacles faced in a community that might impede participation in CMAM. Write responses on the flip chart and fill in gaps: • Poor awareness of acute malnutrition • Poor awareness of CMAM service within the community