should be responsible for ensuring that cards are filled in and filed correctly. Supervisory visits should include review of the OTP cards particularly the cards of children who have died, defaulted and those not responding to treatment. The Supervisor should ensure that admission and discharges are made according to the protocol and that treatment protocols are performed correctly. The supervisor should check that the action protocol is properly followed so that cases are transferred and followed up where appropriate. ▪ Supervisors should work closely with the health care providers, community health workers and community volunteers at the health facility to ensure that any issues in programme delivery, follow up (outreach visits) or in the management of individual children can be identified and followed up. ▪ Supervisors and health workers and community health workers and volunteers should have monthly meetings to discuss any programme issues. This should cover the issues below. See Annex Supervision checklist. -Any issues in program management. This should include a review of the caseload number and if this is manageable for the number of staff available. Any expected increases/decreases in the caseload because of season or sudden population influx should be discussed. -Factors that may affect attendance or might mean an adjustment in OTP schedule. -Staff issues. -Supply issues and planning. -A review of deaths in OTP and inpatient care to identify any problems. -A review of defaulters, children failing to gain weight. -A review of transfers to ensure effective tracking between components. -Issues in the community that may affect access and uptake of services. -A review of monitoring and reporting systems. -Review of weekly and monthly reports. lviii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women ANNEXURE lix National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women ANNEX 1: ANTHROPOMETRIC MEASUREMENT TECHNIQUES CHECKING FOR BILATERAL OEDEMA Bilateral oedema is the sign of Kwashiorkor. Kwashiorkor is always a severe form of malnutrition. Those children are at high risk of mortality and need to be treated in a therapeutic feeding programme urgently. In order to determine the presence of oedema, normal thumb pressure is applied to the both feet for three seconds. If a shallow print persists on the both feet, then the child presents oedema. Only children with bilateral oedema are recorded as having nutritional oedema. You must test for