and whether any particular groups (beyond children aged 6–59 months) are being identified with regularity. • Ensure emergency preparedness is included in national management of SAM scale-up plans and UNICEF national work plans. • Ensure capacity development for management of SAM. BOX 10 New framework for design of SAM DRR framework for MSAM Source: Hailey and Tewoldeberhe, 2010. FIGURE 3 New framework for designing management of SAM, illustrating the disaster risk reduction approach 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Caseload Time Surge capacity required Local treatment capacity Threshold for decision (caseload) Capacity gap Caseload Time Surge capacity required Disaster Risk Reduction though bridging the gap Example Capacity Based Threshold Local treatment capacity Caseload Caseload UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 22 through the health sector, there will be buy-in from health staff at all levels, and SAM coordination can reap the benefits of a well-functioning coordination system. However, if the existing nutrition coordination group is comprised of stakeholders only from the health sector, it can be difficult to maintain the essential cross-sectoral work. In this case, care should be taken to mobilize additional stakeholders from other relevant sectors identified during the initial stakeholder mapping and the coordination group should be linked to multisectoral platforms, for example, Scaled-up Nutrition (SUN). Where coordination of nutrition is placed beyond the MoH (see box 12) the benefits can be wider buy-in. • Technical working groups: In many countries technical subgroups working under the nutrition coordination body have been effective in coordinating the scale-up of management of SAM. These subgroups take on the main coordination role and perform specific activities. These groups can effectively bring together stakeholders, building consensus on protocols, approach and plans. The result can be ‘one voice’ advocating for management of SAM, which can play a key role in influencing National structures: Where management of SAM coordination is located at the national level and who leads it usually depends on how nutrition and health are coordinated in the country. However, the most important aspect is that coordination should be led by government (where one exists). Government leadership is essential for national ownership and to ensure a long-term view of what is feasible and sustainable when addressing barriers to scale-up, including addressing shortfalls in the enabling environment. For this reason, coordination of management of SAM exclusively through short-term nutrition coordination structures that are not linked to longer term national coordination structures are discouraged. UNICEF