circle. One trainer throws a ball to a participant and asks the participant a question. When the participant answers correctly to the group’s satisfaction, she/he throws the ball to another participant and asks another question. The process is repeated until all participants answer a question satisfactorily. 2. The participants form two rows facing each other, each row representing a team. A participant from one team/row asks a question of the participant opposite him/her in the facing team/row. The participant answering the question can ask for him/her team’s help with the question. When the question is answered correctly, the responding team earns a point and then asks a question of the other team. If the question is not answered correctly, the team that asked the question responds and earns the point. The team with the most points wins. 3. The participants form two teams. Each person receives a written answer to a question that the facilitator will ask. When a question is asked, the participant who believes she/he has the correct answer reads the answer. If correct, the person scores a point for his/her team. The team with the most points wins. 4. A participant picks a question from a basket and answers it; other participants give feedback. The process is repeated for the other participants. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 11 HANDOUT – EVALUATION FORM FOR MODULE 1. Did the information presented meet the module’s objectives? 2. What information would you like to see more in-depth? 3. What information was not particularly useful/helpful? 4. Were the materials presented in the module useful overall? 5. What materials were particularly useful? Please describe. 6. What materials were not useful? Please describe. 7. Do you feel you mastered the skill(s) needed for a given exercise/field practice? 8. How could the exercises/field practice be improved? 9. Which exercises or field practice sessions do you think worked best? 10. How could this module be improved to meet the objectives? 11. Do you have any suggestions on the training mechanics (e.g., training space, site visits, visual presentations, length of the course)? Please feel free to use the other side to continue responses. Thank you! Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 12 MODULE ONE: OVERVIEW OF COMMUNITY-BASED MANAGEMENT OF ACUTE MALNUTRITION (CMAM) Module Overview This module is a general orientation and overview of community-based management of