and other supplies and products required for the treatment of children suffering from SAM. To support the training of health staff on SAM. In case WFP is unable to provide SFP, UNICEF may do so after discussion with WFP at country level. If no arrangement can be made, agreements will be made at the regional or headquarters office level. To assist governments in adopting SAM treatment protocols in collaboration with WHO. To explore and promote local production of therapeutic food. To seek programme synergies for mobilizing and screening children and assigning them to the appropriate treatment, together with partners. To aim for joint training of staff on management of SAM. TABLE 3 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 52 difficulties in integrating the programme into existing systems, maintaining the supply chain and assessing progress in terms of coverage. Supply The mapping has underlined the critical role of UNICEF in facilitating the supply chain for SAM treatment. By 2011, UNICEF provided at least 80 per cent of RUTF in 70 per cent of the implementing countries, and provided 100 per cent of RUTF in 43 per cent of the countries80. Certified/approved local production of RUTF (see page 60) was occurring in eight countries by the end of 201181 and in another five countries (Burkina Faso, Haiti, Sierra Leone, Sudan and Uganda) for 2012 (see figure 5). Evaluation and lessons learned Nearly half the countries surveyed in 2011 had conducted a review of SAM management in the last three years, including those covered in a 10-country West Africa review. UNICEF has conducted a further five national evaluations (in Chad, Ethiopia, Kenya, Nepal and Pakistan)82, and FANTA has conducted an additional four (Burkina Faso, Mali, Mauritania and Niger83). In addition many countries have a national management of SAM technical working group/task force that provides a forum for sharing experiences, and a number of national workshops have been conducted to share and document experience in implementing programmes. Though much of this information stays within countries, links to some of these reviews and workshop reports can be found on the Emergency Nutrition Network 80 Deconinck, H., et al., 2011, ‘Review of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition Implementation in West Africa: Summary Report’, www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/WESTAFRICA-CMAM-Synthesis-Oct2011-FANTA.pdf. 81 Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia (two factories), Kenya, Madagascar, Mozambique, Malawi (two factories), Niger and United Republic of Tanzania. 82 UNICEF, 2013b, ‘Global Evaluation of Community Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM): Global