OTP. ▪ MUAC, weight and assessment for oedema are taken every week. ▪ If there is an issue with attendance due to distance or other reasons, it might be necessary to ask the caretaker to come to OTP every two weeks (if this is the case, amount of RUTF given needs to be adjusted). ▪ Appetite test is done at every follow up visit. ▪ Conduct the medical check up and medical/dietary history (illness in the previous week/ two weeks and RUTF or other food eaten) at every follow up visit. Record this on the OTP card. ▪ Follow the Action Protocol to determine if there are complications and determine if there is a need to transfer to inpatient care or if follow up by a community health worker or community volunteer is needed at home. ▪ Children should be transferred to inpatient care at any time during treatment in the OTP according to the Action Protocol if: -Medical condition deteriorates. -Increase in bilateral pitting oedema. -Weight loss on three consecutive OTP sessions. -Static weight (no weight gain) after five OTP sessions. -Target weight has not been reached after 3 months in the program. ▪ Children should be followed up in the community according to action protocol if: -They have lost weight on two consecutive visits -They are in the programme for three weeks with no weight gain or with weight fluctuating between small gains and losses. They should receive special attention during medical assessment. xix National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women ▪ Complete doses of routine medicine according to routine medical protocols. ▪ Any additional medications given during follow up visits should be noted on the OTP card. ▪ Complete the OTP card and ration card. Follow up visits at home Community health workers or volunteers should visit caretakers and children at home if the health care provider determines that there is a need for close monitoring of the child between visits to the OTP. ▪ At least one health care provider at each OTP facility should be responsible for coordinating screening and follow up visits with the community health worker/volunteers. After the OTP distribution, she/he reviews the child’s monitoring card with the assigned community worker and highlights areas for special attention during home visits. ▪ Community health workers/volunteers should record follow-up visits in an exercise book and