of the problem of acute malnutrition. Note to participants that: Acute malnutrition does not just occur in emergencies and is not limited to Africa. Wasting occurs in both emergencies and non-emergencies. Acute malnutrition is not only caused by inadequate food intake but a combination of factors including underlying infections and environmental factors. India and Pakistan (non-emergency settings) have the highest number of children with wasting. Ranking is based on absolute numbers and will change when based on overall wasting. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 18 Module 1 Learning Objective 2: Identify the Principles of CMAM TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 1.4 CMAM Principles. BUZZ GROUPS: WHAT IS CMAM? Have participants form groups of two or three to quickly name, if they can, a few key facts about CMAM. Write responses on a flip chart. POWERPOINT: INTRODUCTION TO CMAM (Show slides 7–14.) Highlight the four main components: 1. Community outreach 2. Outpatient care for SAM without medical complications 3. Inpatient care for SAM with medical complications 4. Services or programmes for management of MAM can be provided depending on the context DISCUSSION: CMAM. Ask participants to quickly highlight some advantages and disadvantages of CMAM services. Discuss and write responses on a flip chart and be prepared to return to this topic. POWERPOINT: PRINCIPLES OF CMAM (Show slides 15–17.) Refer participants to Handout 1.4 CMAM Principles and review briefly together. Explain that in bringing together the four main components of CMAM, services can be carried out according to the following key principles: 1. Maximum access and coverage 2. Timeliness 3. Appropriate medical and nutrition care 4. Care for as long as it is needed POWERPOINT: KEY PRINCIPLE 1. MAXIMUM ACCESS AND COVERAGE (Show slides 18–20.) Slide 19: Explain that establishing decentralised outpatient care sites increases access and geographic coverage of services. POWERPOINT: KEY PRINCIPLE 2. TIMELINESS (Show slides 21–24.) Slide 23: Note to participants that this is a child with SAM who is still alert, likely has a good appetite, and can be treated as an outpatient. Timely identification also helps us identify children with MAM before it deteriorates to SAM. The coloured strip measures MUAC in infants and children. Outreach workers (e.g., community health workers [CHWs], volunteers), mothers and other family members (e.g., aunts, grandmothers, and fathers) can easily identify children with acute malnutrition using MUAC tape and can be trained to recognise bilateral pitting