if necessary. GROUP DISCUSSION: RATIONALE AND PRINCIPLES FOR CMAM MONITORING AND REPORTING SYSTEMS. Ask participants to brainstorm the following questions: 1. What are the key aspects of monitoring and reporting on CMAM? Fill in the gaps in the discussion with the following information: To monitor a CMAM service effectively, you will need to: • Monitor the individual infant or child • Monitor and report on the effectiveness of the service as a whole • Supervise and support the health care providers 2. Why do we monitor CMAM services? Fill in the gaps in the discussion with the following information: Monitoring helps to identify what is working well (strengths), what is not working and where there might be gaps (weaknesses). With this information, weaknesses and gaps can be addressed. • In CMAM, the individual infant or child is monitored to ensure that she/he is treated appropriately and effectively, which helps to continually improve the services they receive. • Health care providers are supervised and supported to maintain their skills and ensure a successful service that treats all infants and children who meet the criteria. 3. What are some characteristics of an effective health management information system (HMIS)? Fill in the gaps in the discussion with the following information: An HMIS must be simple to minimise the demands on health care providers but provide sufficient useful information to ensure service/programme effectiveness and to allow health managers to make decisions and adjustments. An HMIS should complement--not duplicate--existing systems. An HMIS that includes reporting on cases of SAM might already exist, and/or the Ministry of Health (MOH) or UNICEF might have reporting requirements for reporting on acute malnutrition. 4. Who should be responsible for monitoring and reporting on CMAM? Who should supervise the CMAM service/programme in your districts? Fill in the gaps in the discussion with the following information: This will differ for each district. But for each aspect of monitoring, it is important to determine in advance who specifically is responsible for collecting and documenting the data and who specifically is responsible for reporting. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 139 Module 8 Learning Objective 2: Describe How the Individual Infant or Child Is Tracked and Monitored in CMAM TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 8.1 Monitoring the Individual Infant or Child in Outpatient Care, Handout 8.2 Registration Numbering System Proposed for CMAM, Handout 8.3 Monitoring and Reporting on