be compiled monthly at the SFP, OTP an inpatient sites. The monthly reports will then be sent to the District Health Office or equivalent so that reports from all programme sites can be compiled. Information can also be collected from the affected communities, beneficiaries of the programme and others who are involved in the programme (stakeholders). This will help programme managers better understand possible issues in the programme such as high default or low coverage. Protocols and reference sheets Protocols and reference sheets can be found in a separate pack at the back of these guidelines. These can be copied and printed in large quantities. Annex 28: Monthly report format Annex 29: Performance indicators and calculating rates Annex 30: Supervision checklist lii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Table 11: Definition of terms used in monitoring and reporting Term Inpatient OTP SFP Recovered Discharged to OTP once stabilised Meets exit criteria Meets exit criteria Absent Missed one or more visits Missed one or more visits Default Absent more than 2 days Absent 3 consecutive weeks or 2 consecutive weeks if OTP is operating every 2 weeks Absent 2 consecutive visits if SFP is every month or 3 consecutive visits if SFP is every 2 weeks Death Died when in inpatient care Died while registered in OTP Died while registered in SFP Non recovered(non responder) Does not meet exit criteria after 14 days in inpatient care Does not meet exit criteria after 4 months in OTP Does not meet exit criteria after 4 months in SFP Readmission Discharged from inpatient and once again meets admission criteria. Treated as new admission Discharged recovered from OTP and once again meets admission criteria. Treated as new admission Discharged recovered from SFP and once again meets admission criteria Treated as new admission Medical transfer Transferred for medical investigation Transferred for medical investigation Moved in Transfer from inpatient care to OTP Transferred to OTP after discharge from inpatient care Moved in Return after default Defaulted and then returns within 2 months to complete treatment. Defaulted and then returns to complete treatment. Moved out Transfer to inpatient care from OTP Transferred from OTP to inpatient care Monitoring the individual child OTP CARDS ▪ Anthropometric, medical and nutritional information for each child is entered on the OTP card by health staff. Regular review of the cards by