100 per cent effective in identifying children with SAM when assessed alongside house to house methods in most contexts. CSAS CSAS was developed in 2002 as part of the community therapeutic care (CTC) research programme. It was used for programme M&E for several years. However, it was deemed too expensive to be used routinely and has now been superseded by the less resource intense SQUEAC and SLEAC methods for routine M&E purposes. Design CSAS uses a two-stage sampling design. The first stage is a systematic spatial sample of the entire programme area to select the communities to survey. The sample is therefore representative of the whole programme area. The second stage is an active and adaptive case finding (also called 150 FANTA, 2012, ‘Semi-Quantitative Evaluation of Access and Coverage (SQUEAC)/Simplified Lot Quality Assurance Sampling Evaluation of Access and Coverage (SLEAC) Technical Reference’ http://www. fantaproject.org/monitoring-and-evaluation/squeac-sleac. snowball or chain referral) method that find all or nearly all SAM cases in the communities being surveyed. Hence, the sample is representative of the communities surveyed. Results CSAS yields the following results: • Overall coverage estimate • Local coverage estimates which can be represented as a coverage map • Ranked list of barriers Figures 8 and 9 show typical CSAS outputs from a coverage assessment using CSAS of an NGOdelivered CMAM programme undertaken in two neighbouring health districts in Niger. The resource list below provides guidance and tools for CSAS. C2.2 Semi-Quantitative Evaluation of Access and Coverage (SQUEAC) SQUEAC is a semi-quantitative method that provides in-depth analysis of barriers and boosters to ANNEX C 83 FIGURE 9 coverage. It is designed as a routine programme monitoring tool through the intelligent use of routine monitoring data complemented by other relevant data that are collected on a ‘little and often’ basis. Design SQUEAC is more an investigation than a survey. SQUEAC is made up of three stages: • Stage 1: Semi-quantitative investigation into factors affecting coverage using the SQUEAC toolkit • Stage 2: Confirmation of areas of high and low coverage identified in stage 1 through small studies and small-area surveys • Stage 3: Estimation of overall coverage using Bayesian techniques. Likelihood survey is conducted as part of this stage. This survey utilises a systematic spatial sample as with all the other coverage survey methods. Stage 3 of SQUEAC is optional and is done if the reporting of an overall coverage estimate is a key information requirement