acceptable levels. • Develop appropriate and nationally agreed motivation packages for volunteers. • Rewarding good performance by volunteers (either through cash or non cash incentives) • Include community agents/volunteers in training on management of SAM. • Where volunteers are already a recognized delivery mechanism for health services, advocate for them to be included as a paid cadre of community workers who are trained, properly supervised and supported as part of the health team. This may be a long process, but it can be a powerful advocacy tool because of the effectiveness of these volunteers in identifying cases of SAM and promoting treatment coverage. • Forge relationships with community agents who already have regular contact with mothers and sick children, such as traditional healers and mothers of children already in the programme. Have them refer cases, which should impose little additional time burden on them. • Encourage regular meetings between community agents/volunteers and health facility staff to exchange information, views and suggestions. Community dialogue and engaging with opinion leaders and community leaders improves understanding of the CMAM programme and therefore its uptake BOX 25 Good practice: Referral in Uganda Uganda is testing use of RapidSMS, using a toll-free number to allow community extension workers to communicate with health staff when they identify a child with SAM or other major diseases. Overall, extension workers are reported to be enthusiastic about the technology. These are some of their responses: • The system will “help improve the functioning of health services at the community level.” • The system is helping to share information very quickly. “The information goes very fast” and it allows for a “quicker response.” • “There are no costs attached to this SMS system.” Reporting via SMS is easier and cheaper than hiring a boda (bicycle taxi) to transport hard copies of reports, as previously done. Source: www.acted.org/en/writing-sms-can-save-livesnorthern-uganda. BOX 26 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 40 progressively lower level health or communitylevel staff are being called on to collect and act on the information. Simplifying treatment monitoring formats requires: most health systems. Reinforcing new skills, troubleshooting issues that arise and giving feedback on performance are all critical elements of supportive supervision, particularly when a new programme is being rolled out. The benefits can be seen both in good adherence to protocols and in staff motivation. The level of supervision required, at least during initial scale-up, usually necessitates additional support from the MoH.