remaining gap in these areas. This can be important for showing success where we/partners work, but also point to the need for further scale-up. iii. Geographical coverage (national and target area) represents a crucial starting point for developing and monitoring SAM management scale-up strategies, identifying where there is an unmet need for SAM management at national or subnational levels, and advocating with ministries of health and other partners to fill these gaps. iv. The final figure for programme progress lends itself more to communicating the success against agency/partner aspirations which takes into account capacities in place in the country. This figure can be important for showing success in both the planning and delivering of programmes of UNICEF/partners as per the capacities in place. UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 78 Assessment of capacities is a critical part of bottleneck analysis and must be undertaken on a variety of levels including technical (available staff, skills and expertise); service provision (including public and private service providers and shortand long-term support provided through agencies); service uptake (i.e., community demand, participation and compliance); and resources. Current as well as potential future capacities and the geographical distribution of different capacities should be taken into account in the assessment. B1. Assessing health system capacities Health system capacity assessment for SAM management should cover all aspects of the approach spanning the enabling environment, access to supplies, quality of services, access to services and competencies for CMAM. Capacity within these areas should be considered at the national, district, facility and community level (e.g., community health workers). A suggested framework146 to guide this assessment has been developed and key questions for the capacity analysis based on this framework are given on the next page. 146 Ghoos K et al, Framework for integration of management of SAM into national health systems, http://www.ennonline.net/fex/43/ framework. Assessments that feed into bottleneck analysis ANNEX B B2. Assessing community capacities Assessment of community capacities linked to service uptake takes the form of a community enquiry. This looks at the systems, structures and communication channels at the community level that can be used to create and sustain demand for (admissions) and client compliance (attendance) in the programme. The methods recommended to conduct this community enquiry are detailed in Module 3147 of the FANTA/ Valid/UNICEF CMAM training modules. This kind of enquiry is particularly important because whom to involve in CMAM and how at the community level cannot be