for Stunting Prevention Nashonuma Programme: A systems approach Launched in 2020 and scaled up nationwide in 2023, the Nashonuma Programme provides a comprehensive set of services to pregnant and breastfeeding women (PBW) and children under 2 years of age, focusing on the pivotal first 1,000 days, that start at conception. Eligible women come from the poorest households in the country who are enrolled in the BISP un-conditional cash transfer programme (Kafalaat). The Nashonuma programme is delivered through more than 540 facilitation centers (FC) located in government health facilities in 157 districts across the country and has reached 3.7 million women and children since its inception. Women from eligible households are advised to enrol early in their pregnancies to receive the below set of comprehensive nutrition specific and sensitive services through the child’s second birthday on a quarterly basis. 1. Uptake of antenatal and postnatal care services and immunization provided by health centres, is a conditionality of the Nashonuma programme. 2. Provision of specialized nutritious food (SNF) for mothers and children (75 and 50 grams per day, respectively). These are locally produced and consist of nutrient-packed paste to complement the daily diet by filling essential nutrient gaps, especially of vitamins, minerals and essential amino acids and fatty acids. Since Q4 2025, women with overweight/ obesity (MUAC >= 25 cm, ~15 percent of all women) receive a multiple micronutrient supplement (MMS) instead of SNF. 3. Conditional cash transfers are provided directly by BISP to PBW/mothers who meet the conditions of health services utilization and who return 90 percent of the empty sachets of SNF they received in the previous appointment (note: a woman visits the FC every 90 days until her child reaches 2 years of age). The cash transfer is higher for a girl child as compared to that for a pregnant woman and a boy child (4,000 vs 3,500 PKR/quarter, respectively). PAKISTAN’S HIGH UNAFFORDABILITY OF A HEALTHY DIET IS A MAJOR DRIVER OF STUNTING Stunting originates early in life, starting in pregnancy. Therefore, families’ access to healthy, diverse diets is critical so that pregnant and breastfeeding women and young children have access to diets that prevent stunting and related nutritional deficiencies. However, two-thirds of families in Pakistan cannot afford a nutritious diet.vi The affordability gap is largest among the poorest two wealth quintiles: their food expenditure covers less than 60 percent of the cost of a healthy, diverse diet,vii restricting