advocacy and resource mobilization is significant. The simple online format produced by the Global SAM Management update (http://sammanagementdata.org)28 (see box 34) articulates a limited set of key SAM indicators and information (adhering to common definitions) to be collected as standard across countries.29 This set of indicators can help provide a framework within which countries can develop their more extensive national and subnational reporting and monitoring systems. As part of the Global SAM Update, each country will have online access to update specific indicators annually. This information will be stored at the country level and will be available at regional and global levels. This will enable tracking of trends in specific indicators such as geographic 28 Only accessible online during data collection period (usually Q1 and Q2). To get an excel version of the latest format, please contact nutrition@unicef.org. 29 Currently only accessible to UNICEF staff but in future will have a publically accessible component. Guidance point: Nationally agreed reporting for SAM management For management of SAM it is important to ensure that appropriate national reporting formats are respected in emergencies, through support to a strong coordination platform. This will ensure consistency and comparability of reporting of programme results to the national coordination group and the government. Save the Children UK has developed a monitoring and reporting tool for NGOs in emergency supplementary feeding programmes (the Minimum Reporting Package). Though it includes modules for monitoring management of SAM, these are unlikely to be sufficiently streamlined for national programmes. Therefore they should only be used where agreed national formats are not in place. BOX 15 PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 27 programme quality, these indicators can identify issues with adherence to treatment protocols, management of the service (waiting times, approach to clients etc.), RUTF sharing, insufficient community mobilization and poor coverage (see box 14) • Numbers of clients transferred to inpatient care as a proportion of admissions: a possible indication of problems regarding adherence to treatment protocols, difficulties with referral mechanisms and/or coverage issues (poor coverage is equated with late presentation, which often leads to a large number of referrals) • Consumption rate for RUTF and therapeutic milk (depending on other systems in place): to aid in supply planning and potentially to trigger investigation if quantities used differ greatly from the average that would be expected given the number of children receiving treatment (136-150 sachets RUTF/child) • Numbers and trends in