Creation’, 1.2 percent of the households reported to have received it, out of which 30.1 percent is from Government sources, 39.8 percent from NGOs and 0.3 percent from UN agencies. Overall 5.6 percent households received ‘Health care/medicines’ and 96.4 percent of it is from Government. Very small proportion (0.5 percent) of households reported to have received ‘Cash for Asset Creation’ and only 0.6 percent households reported receiving ‘Fodder, Animal Feed, Vaccination’ mainly from ‘Government’. 0.4 percent received Nutrition (prevention and treatment of malnutrition), mainly from the UN/NGOs. 0.1 percent received Microcredit, from Government and ‘Others’ sources. Priority Needs Identification of most vulnerable areas and populations by recognizing their priority needs is important to strategically plan for the requisite improvement in short and medium terms. Strengthening the institutional settings, and the implementation procedures of social safety nets, to Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 45 ensure better and equitable food distribution and to expand coverage in the identified food insecure parts of the country could help in resolving vulnerability of such communities. Thus, to get an idea on the priority short-term needs of the households, they were asked about their two priority needs. Across the Merged Areas, 32 percent households reported ‘Cash Grant/Assistance’ as their first needs followed by Food Assistance by 22 percent. Another 13 percent and 12 percent of households mentioned drinking water and health care respectively as their more prior need in the shorter terms. Looking at the area-wise results on the first need other than food and cash, almost half of the households in TSD Bannu, 21 percent in South Waziristan and 20 percent in TSD Kohat mentioned ‘drinking water’, as their more priority need. Similarly, almost 23 percent households in TSDs Bannu and Lakki mentioned ‘health’ after food or cash grant/assistance as their more priority need. Cash assistance was also identified by around 18 percent households as their second priority need, followed by 17 percent ‘health care’ needs’, 15 percent ‘support for housing/reconstruction’, and 14 percent ‘drinking water’. Health care was identified as a second priority need in TSD Bannu, District Mohmand and District South Waziristan. Similarly, drinking water emerged as second priority need in RSD Bannu, Mohmand and South Waziristan Districts. Figure 10: Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 46 Shocks and Coping Strategies Major Shocks Experienced by the Households Food