Health related issues and WASH etc. Focus Groups Discussions To Understand the food security issues at the community level, the CFSLA also included Focus Groups Discussions with the key community members19 as well in all the PSUs. . The information collected from the households’ level survey triangulated/validated with the information collected through the FDGs, where required. Rapid Market Appraisal Similarly, to understand the local market mechanism and dynamics, the CFSLA included a Rapid Market Appraisal of all the local markets in the Merged Districts and Tribal Sub-Divisions . In each market five traders (2 wholesalers and 3 retailers) were interviewed. In cases where wholesalers were not available, all five retailers were interviewed. Sampling Methodology Universe The universe of the survey consists of household-based population in all Merged Areas Seven Districts and Six Tribal Sub-Divisions of the Merged Areas. Sampling Frame 19 A diverse group of 8-10 community members having essential knowledge on food security related issues Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 7 Urban Frame The Sampling frame updated through 6th Population & Housing Census 2017 has been used. Each city/town has been divided into a number of small compact areas called Enumeration Blocks (EBs). Each enumeration block consists of on average 200 to 250 houses with well-defined boundaries recorded in the prescribed forms and maps thereof along with physical features. Rural Frame The Rural Frame consists of list of Enumeration blocks; an Enumeration block may be a whole village or part of a village. Each enumeration block of Urban and Rural areas has well defined geographical boundaries described on a specified form along with map. The total number of Enumeration Blocks in urban and rural areas of Merged Areas as per 2017 frame are presented in table 1 as follows: Stratification Plan The sample size of Merged Areas is representative of the corresponding seven Merged Districts and Six Tribal Sub-Divisions (13 domains). In addition, sample size has been allocated at Rural and Urban segments inside each District and TSD as per their proportion in frame. Sample Size Estimation and Allocation Plan: The sample size estimated using following parameters: Table 2: Sample Size Estimation and Allocation Plan Sr.no Indicators Value and source 1 Response Rate (RR) 90% 2 Design Effect (Deff) 2 3 Relative Margin of Error (RME) 10% 4 Population at risk (pb) 1 5 Prevalence values Borderline Food consumption Score from