and then returns to complete treatment. Moved out Transfer to inpatient care from OTP Transferred from OTP to inpatient care Monitoring the individual child OTP CARDS ▪ Anthropometric, medical and nutritional information for each child is entered on the OTP card by health staff. Regular review of the cards by health facility staff and during supervisory visits will help ensure that correct procedures are being followed. It is essential that the OTP cards are stored and filed properly for the system to work. ▪ OTP cards are kept in a file at the health facility. The cards should be kept in plastic sleeves and stored in files: File 1 for children currently in the OTP and File 2 for exits from OTP (this includes those who have not fully exited but are ‘pending’ such as transfers and defaulters who may return). If the numbers in the programme are large, it may be necessary to have a separate file for children recovered (discharged cured). Files should be organised into sections with file dividers as shown below. ▪ The number of cards in the file represents the number of children currently in the program. At the end of the OTP day, this can be checked against tally sheets to ensure that reporting is correct. liii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women File 1: Children currently in the OTP File 2: Exits Section 1: Children currently in the OTP Section 2: Absentees: Children who have missed 1 or 2 weeks Section 3: Transfers awaiting return: These are children who have been transferred from OTP to inpatient care Section1: Recovered (discharged cured): Check in this file for any re-admissions Section 2: Defaulters: Children who have defaulted may return. If they return, the same card is used Section 3: Non-recovered: Children who do not meet discharge criteria after 4 months in OTP Section 4: Deaths: Children who have died while in the programme RATION CARDS FOR OTP AND SFP The ration card is given to the caregiver to take home. The ration card contains key information about the child and basic information on their progress (weight, height, ration received). This is the caregiver’s record of the child’s progress. Where possible, the ration card can be attached to the MOH health passport or health card. NUMBERING SYSTEM ▪ A registration number is given to each