of the most important indicators of how well a service is meeting needs. A service might be of very good quality, with very few deaths, low default rates and high recovery rates. But, if the service is reaching only 30 percent of the children who need treatment, then it cannot be considered successful. The aim is to achieve both good quality and good coverage. Ask participants to read Handout 8.9 Principles of Coverage. Pay particular attention to the graph in Figure 1, noting the direct correlation between coverage rate, recovery rate and met need. Remind participants that they can use Handout 8.9 as a reference in their own work. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 150 Coverage is expressed as a percentage. If there are 100 children with acute malnutrition living in a service area and 70 of them are in the service, then coverage is 70 percent. Ask participants to refer to Handout 1.2 Terminology for CMAM and read the definition of “coverage ratio.” Ask if there are any questions. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: COVERAGE SURVEYS. Explain that coverage is usually determined by conducting a coverage survey. The coverage survey methods called Semi-Quantitative Evaluation of Access and Coverage (SQUEAC)/ Simplified Lot Quality Assurance Sampling Evaluation of Access and Coverage (SLEAC) are commonly used in CMAM. SQUEAC combines routine program monitoring data, an array of qualitative information, and small-sample quantitative surveys. This combination of data permits identification of key issues. SLEAC is a small-sample quantitative method for mapping and estimating coverage over large areas; it is a low-resource method for classifying and estimating the coverage of selective feeding programmes. The two methods are normally used together. For more information on SQUEAC/SLEAC, refer participants to this technical reference on the methods: https://www.fantaproject.org/monitoring-and-evaluation/squeac-sleac. Also, let participants know that new techniques for assessing access and coverage that are less resource-intensive are under development. Coverage surveys can provide a lot of information about why children do not attend the service, why some might be excluded and what the possible barriers to access are. However, coverage surveys are costly and require specially trained staff. The need to find simple mechanisms to gauge coverage levels in situations where coverage surveys are not practical or feasible is recognised. Simplified coverage survey methods are being developed and tested. In the absence of coverage surveys, some services have used simple, somewhat crude, methods to monitor coverage