objectives of an SFP, and when to start and close an SFP. Emphasize the following key points: • Supplementary feeding might be part of integrated CMAM services. It may be operated by the same agency or by a different one. • Effective monitoring and close coordination among supplementary feeding, outpatient care and inpatient care are critical for ensuring a smooth referral process, especially where different agencies are supporting the different components of CMAM. • Bilateral pitting oedema, mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC) and weight should be checked at every session to identify children who need to be referred to outpatient or inpatient care. Where weight-for-height (WFH)/weight-for-length (WFL) is used, height/length is measured every month. GROUP DISCUSSION: MANAGING MAM IN THE ABSENCE OF SUPPLEMENTARY FEEDING. Explain to participants that there are instances where there is no SFP available. This is likely to be the case when only the management of SAM (inpatient care and outpatient care) is part of routine health care in a non-emergency situation or in a food-secure environment. It also might be the case after an emergency when resources are no longer available for SFPs and/or where the prevalence of acute malnutrition has been significantly reduced. Explain Point 1 from Handout 6.1, Section D. Ask participants how rations can be used to ensure the same goals. Tell participants that they will review additional options for exceptional CMAM programming in emergencies later on. Discuss Points 2 and 3 from Handout 6.1, Section D in the same context. WORKING GROUPS: LINKING TO PREVENTION PROGRAMMES. Ask participants to form working groups by region/district. Introduce Point 4 from Handout 6.1, Section D. Ask participants to reflect on the following questions: • Is there ongoing supplementary feeding in your district? • What other programmes exist and how could linkages be established between these programmes and outpatient care? Ask one group to share their responses and other groups to add new information. Discuss and fill in gaps. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: HANDOUT 6.1. MANAGEMENT OF MODERATE ACUTE MALNUTRITION (MAM) IN EMERGENCIES, SECTION E. Explain to participants that there are options for treatment of acute malnutrition in the absence of an SFP and/or outpatient care for the management of SAM without medical complications. Explain that the three options are described further in Section E of Handout 6.1. Clarify that the options provided are temporary and are meant to be used as a gap-filling measure until both outpatient care