women’s lives even more difficult, when they have to depend on male in-laws or extended family as they are not allowed to live on their own. Nevertheless, the communities that were displaced for more than a year in a different province benefitted from seeing a completely different lifestyle in which girls and women attend schools, colleges, and universities, and have all sorts of jobs, particularly in hospitals and offices. More in-depth research and understanding is needed. The contributions and leadership of women, both in traditional and contemporary settings, are critical to ensuring meaningful and sustainable peace and for that special needs of women and girls during repatriation and resettlement needs to be met on a priority basis. The situation in Newly Merged Areas is somewhat challenging in terms of gender equality and female empowerment, as the areas are predominantly male oriented, where men enjoy complete freedom of mobility, while women and girls are confined within the house. The evidence available from the region at this time suggests that many women are confined to their homes most of their lives. The rare occurrences in which they leave their homes or villages are mostly to visit a doctor. Most married women give birth to six to ten children by age 40 and are mainly managing household chores. Women’s access to and control over productive assets and income recourses is very limited. Despite women’s significant role in agriculture and managing livestock, the most productive resources like land, agricultural, livestock and others are controlled by men. According to the CFSLA findings, a small proportion (4%) households reported women engagement in the livelihood activities. The main sources of women engaged in earning livelihoods are handicrafts (23%), selling of own agriculture/livestock produce (22%) while about 15 percent women are doing regular job (Government/Private). Households reported owning assets which are mainly used by women for productive/non-productive works; for example, 38 percent households reported owning sewing machine; grain mill (3 percent). Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 60 Gender Based Violence It’s interesting to note that the large number (88.7%) of households revealed no occurrence of gender-based violence in most areas under study. Mohmand District reported the highest (20%) of such incidences, followed by Bajaur (16.5%) and Kurram (15.1%), mainly occurring during collecting or fetching water. However, it is established that rates of domestic violence and corporal punishment, child labour, and