among children 6-23 months of age found that the combination of BISP’s Kafalaat unconditional cash transfer and specialized nutritious food including social and behaviour change communication was the most effective in preventing stunting in that age group. Realizing the devastating impact of stunting in early life on human capital development, BISP prioritized stunting prevention. The 'Fill the Nutrient Gap' analysis conducted by the government of Pakistan and WFP in 2017 found that two-thirds of families could not afford a nutritious diet and that providing cash to ﬁll the gap for all families in that situation would be far too costly, and recommended to design an intervention package focused on closing the nutrient gap during the ﬁrst 1,000 days in a well targeted and cost-efﬁcient manner. Between 2014-2019 randomized controlled trials were conducted by AKU to test how various combinations of interventions for PBW and children impacted child stunting. 7 BENAZIR NASHONUMA PROGRAMME Midline Evaluation Results What underlies the strong cohort’s pregnancy and birth outcomes results of Nashonuma? The evidence-base for the design of Nashonuma was strong and its combination of different components that are well-delivered provide for the impact at scale, including: 1. The provision of locally produced, specialized nutritious food supplement (SNF) that fills dietary gaps, at a time in life when inadequate nutrition needs to be prevented because of its far reaching, lifelong consequences. Dietary gaps are very much related to poverty, with people not being able to afford much more than bread with some pulses and vegetables, while meat, eggs, dairy and fish are only consumed occasionally. This results in diets with inadequate content of essential nutrients such as vitamins, minerals, essential amino acids (protein components) and essential fatty acids. Young children’s complementary foods need to be particularly diverse to meet their nutritional needs, but many of them consume foods from no more than two of eight food groups per day. 2. Conditional cash transfer provided to the women and children on a quarterly basis when they visit the FC to enable and incentivize them to uptake health and nutrition services during pregnancy and early infant life. 3. Access to essential health and nutrition services such as antenatal care, postnatal care and immunization, that are a condition for receiving the Nashonuma services. 4. Sustained high enrolment and participation in the program. Through social mobilization and word of mouth, eligible women and their families hear about the program