of government counterparts and put in place structures to improve nutrition governance and management. Renewed Efforts against Child Hunger and Undernutrition has the potential to influence the enabling environment for management of SAM. Increasing treatment of SAM is one of the ‘big-five’ interventions that it endorses.62 In the paper ‘Scaling-Up Nutrition: What will it cost?’ (Horton et al. 2010)63, which draws on the work of the Lancet series, the World Bank lists management of SAM in its 13 top cost-effective interventions to combat undernutrition. CMAM is the second step of the proposed scale-up process due to concerns over cost and capacity challenges. Such decisions are best taken at the country level, based on local assessment of capacity challenges. The same list of priority interventions for scale-up has been taken up by the global SUN movement64, based on field studies that suggest 1 million deaths per year could be averted if this package were fully implemented. The SUN movement was born of concerns expressed 62 The others are: improve infant and young child feeding practices, increase micronutrient intake, improve hygiene and parasite control, and increase food availability and accessibility. They are described in http://www.reachpartnership.org/c/document_library/get_ file?uuid=5e744fdf-4eb2-4424-9b33-5478392aec3f&groupId=94591. 63 Horton, S., et al., 2010, ‘Scaling Up Nutrition, What will it Cost?’ http://siteresources.worldbank.org/HEALTHNUTRITIONAND POPULATION/Resources/Peer-Reviewed-Publications/ ScalingUpNutrition.pdf. 64 Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) Movement http://scalingupnutrition.org. SAM MANAGEMENT: INFORMATION FOR PROGRAMMING 47 of linkages at which entry point, delivery of services at what level, etc.). Bottlenecks and potential solutions must be identified locally. • Scale-up of health interventions can offer very relevant lessons. Efforts to integrate and scale up management of SAM within the health care package should draw on the successful experiences of financing and scaling up of other health services, such as malaria treatment. This collaboration has remained largely untapped till now. • Management of SAM will be most effective as part of a continuum of nutrition services. Management of SAM should be part of the management of SAM (FANTA/ENN 200867; Grellety, Schwartz and Rizzi 201068; FANTA 201169; ENN 2012a70; UNICEF WCAR 201071). Five UNICEF country CMAM evaluations conducted in Chad, Ethiopia, Kenya, Nepal and Pakistan have added to this body of literature. At the end of 2011 an international workshop was convened in Ethiopia to share government experiences in scaled-up CMAM, with representation by 22 countries.72 Several points that emerged from the conference are important to highlight: • Scale-up requires time, commitment and dependable funding. Managing