programmes and scale-up are below: Identification • According to analysis conducted by the MAMI project, infants identified as wasted using either WHO or NCHS growth norms are not predominantly those that were born with low birth weight and the age distribution of wasting is fairly even. This indicates that wasting in Management of SAM in other groups ANNEX F The MAMI project The MAMI project was begun in 2008 to investigate the management of acutely malnourished infants under six months of age in emergency programmes, in order to improve practice by contributing to evidence-based, better practice guidelines. The specific objectives were: • To establish the infant burden of disease • To establish what is currently advised in the form of guidelines, policies and strategies • To determine what is carried out in practice • To make recommendations for future practice and research This annex provides an overview of issues related to treatment of SAM in age groups other than children 6-59 months. Information is valid at the time of writing but further updates may be available. F1. Infants (under six months) Infants under six months are being admitted to therapeutic and supplementary programmes in many contexts (ranging from 1.2 per cent to 23.1 per cent of admissions)191 and attention and resources should be used to ensure that their needs are met. Though treatment of infants with SAM in inpatient care is included in CMAM guidance and protocols, infants with SAM are primarily identified at the facility level and not community level. Currently there are no agreed upon nor reliable tools for screening for SAM in infants at community level. (MUAC has not yet been recommended for this group). Coverage for this age group within CMAM is therefore likely to be very poor. The main findings and recommendations emerging from The Management of Acute 191 ENN, CIHD, ACF, 2010, ‘Management of Acute malnutrition in infants (MAMI): Current evidence, policies, practices and programme outcomes’, http://www.ennonline.net/ mamitechnicalreview ANNEX F 97 infants is a prevalent public health problem in its own right.192 A recent publication (Kerac et al. 2012)193 estimates that there are about 8.5 million wasted infants worldwide at any point in time (based on WHO growth standards). • The perception that infants are often still breastfed and are therefore satisfactorily nourished in contexts where acute malnutrition is identified as an issue in older children is incorrect. • The use of WHO growth