The nurse said she was fine and did not need to be in the service. You were angry and told everyone not to bother with this service. You know nearly every mother in your village. Father: Your -8-month-old twins are in outpatient care. One twin was sick and the other was not, but they both received the special food. The sick one took the medicine given to her in outpatient care and recovered well. You live far from the outpatient care site, and your wife has to carry both children on her back to get them to the site. She had to miss three weeks at the outpatient care site because of the distance. A community volunteer visited you and your wife and told you how important it was to take the children back to the clinic. So, your wife went back the next week, and the children continued to recover. You know other people from your area who are attending the service but do not go every week because it is too far away. One child from your area died because he got suddenly very sick and the family could not get him to the clinic in time. You wonder if it is possible to go to the clinic every two weeks instead of every week. You are very happy with the services and have told the men in your village to send their wives and children to the outpatient care site. Grandmother: Your daughter died and you were left with four of her children, including the youngest— a four-month-old baby. The baby got very sick and thin. You tried feeding the baby cow’s milk mixed with water, but the baby got worse. You took the baby to the health facility and the nurse told you that the baby was dehydrated and very malnourished (thin) and needed attention at the hospital. You cannot get to the hospital or stay there because of the other children at home and because you are old and cannot walk far. Two days later, the baby died. Community Elder: You like the CMAM services. You remember the bad time three years ago when people came and set up tents, and all the swollen and thin children were supposed to go there. Many of them did not go, and many of them died. Now mothers/caregivers can take their children to the outpatient care site at