health care provider reduces the amount of RUTF given by that number of packets. For example, if the mother/caregiver has three packets left from a 14-packet ration, 11 packets are provided for the next week. The health care provider also should collect empty RUTF packets. • The health care provider completes the outpatient care treatment card and RUTF ration card. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 72 Module 4 Learning Objective 4: Explain Medical Treatment for the Management of Children With SAM Without Medical Complications in Outpatient Care TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 4.7 Medical Treatment for the Management of SAM in Outpatient Care, Handout 4.8 Routine Medicines for SAM in Outpatient Care, Handout 4.9 Supplemental Medicines for SAM in Outpatient Care, and Handout 4.10 Medicine Protocol Rationale for Outpatient Care (Reference). PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: ROUTINE MEDICAL TREATMENT IN OUTPATIENT CARE. Refer participants to Handout 4.7 Medical Treatment for the Management of SAM in Outpatient Care and discuss, emphasising: • When children should NOT receive malaria treatment • Why iron and folic acid, and Vitamin A are NOT given routinely • Which treatments are given during the child’s first session at outpatient care (i.e., amoxicillin, malaria testing or treatment if appropriate) and which are given later (e.g., deworming, measles vaccination if necessary, treatment for anaemia if necessary) Answer any questions and refer participants to Handout 4.8 Routine Medicines for SAM in Outpatient Care. In plenary, explain the details of the medical treatment protocols as they appear in each column and row. Relay to participants any adaptations/differences that should be made in accordance with country-specific national drug protocols. PRACTICE: ROUTINE MEDICAL TREATMENT OF SAM. Ask participants to form groups of three. On a flip chart, write the basic information of a number of children in outpatient care (below). Ask participants to determine which medications and dosages each child needs based on whether the child is a new case, what medication s/he has already received, his/her medical condition, and his/her age.  Patient 1: Girl, age 2 years − Referred from inpatient care after 10 days of stabilisation of medical complications, which included eye signs of vitamin A deficiency. The girl is now clinically well, has a good appetite, and received two doses of vitamin A on Day 1 and 2 of inpatient care for the treatment of vitamin A deficiency. It has been 5 days since she