of 6 months. No water is added. Slide 31: RUTF has several advantages. It can be kept in simple packaging for several months without refrigeration. RUTF can be kept for several days even when opened. Also, RUTF contains iron, vitamin A, and several other micronutrients needed for the SAM child to recover. Slide 32: RUTF can be produced locally using simple equipment. However, thorough inspections and quality control are needed for local production to ensure that there is no risk of contamination of the ingredients and that the product has the right composition and quality. The cost for local production can vary based on availability of ingredients and the capacity of local manufacturers. DEMONSTRATION: FAMILIARIZATION WITH RUTF AND ITS PACKAGING. After the PowerPoint slides, distribute RUTF packets so that participants can familiarize themselves with the product. POWERPOINT: ACUTE MALNUTRITION CLASSIFICATION FOR CMAM (Show slides 34–35.) Slide 34: Note to participants that in the past, acute malnutrition was divided into two categories that determined the mode of treatment. Slide 35: An updated classification has been proposed for use in CMAM: dividing the category for children with SAM into SAM with medical complications and SAM without complications. ELICITATION: COMPARING THE TWO CLASSIFICATIONS. Ask participants what has changed between the two classifications and what implications this has for treating children with SAM. Fill in the gaps: • The new classification recommends that children with SAM and medical complications be treated in inpatient care until their condition is stabilised. This ensures that children with increased mortality risk are treated appropriately. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 21 • It also recommends that those with SAM with appetite and without medical complications be treated in outpatient care. Ask participants about critical factors in identifying children with medical complications. Note that the most critical indicator of whether a child with SAM requires inpatient or outpatient care is APPETITE. POWERPOINT: SCREENING, ADMISSION, AND DISCHARGE USING MUAC (Show slides 36–38.) Slide 36: Note that: • MUAC makes it easy to understand how children are classified and whether they will qualify for treatment. This increases transparency and community support for service delivery. • MUAC is simple to use. A MUAC tape can be used by one person and is easily transportable. It can fit into a pocket. It also does not require literacy, numeracy, or additional equipment. This makes it easy to use at