Section C, discuss the difference between performance indicators and output indicators. Answer any questions. WORKING GROUPS: PRACTICE DEVELOPING A LOGICAL FRAMEWORK. In the same working groups, ask participants to complete a logistical framework for CMAM services in their district based on the needs they determined earlier. Explain that Handout 7.1 Key Elements of CMAM Framework Aligned with the HSS Building Blocks can provide a useful framework in determining outputs/activities, as in the example in Handout 7.9, above. In plenary, ask working groups to compare the goals and objectives and provide example outcomes, outputs/activities and inputs. Discuss the assumptions each group made as well as the indicators. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 128 Module 7 Learning Objective 4: Develop an Action Plan for CMAM TRAINER: Review Handout 7.1 Key Elements of CMAM Framework Aligned with the Health Systems Strengthening (HSS) Building Blocks and become familiar with Handout 7.10 Calculating Estimated SAM and MAM Cases, Handout 7.11 Staff Needs, Roles and Responsibilities, Handout 7.12 Calculating Estimated RUTF Needs, Handout 7.13 Overview of Resources for CMAM and Handout 7.14 Matrix for Action Planning. BRAINSTORM: INFORMATION TO ASSESS BEFORE ACTION PLANNING. Ask participants to quickly review some of the planning steps they have completed in this module so far, the conclusions they have reached and decisions made. The points they raise do not have to be exhaustive. Explain that, building on the situation analysis (needs) and logical framework (design and strategy), the next step is an action plan. Before creating the action plan, additional information is required. Ask participants to name what they think might be key information for developing an action plan. Write answers on the flip chart, asking leading questions as necessary to elicit the following answers: 1. Defining target population and geographical coverage, including estimating the number of SAM cases 2. Identifying sites, including learning sites 3. Determining staffing needs and staff roles and responsibility 4. Determining RUTF needs DEMONSTRATION: ESTIMATING SAM CASES. Explain to participants that the parameters of the service delivery are important to quantify. Through their work on a situation analysis and logical framework, the target population can be determined. CMAM prioritizes children under 5, but the target population could be larger or narrower in certain contexts. Once the parameters have been identified, it is important to calculate the estimated number of children who need treatment for SAM. Refer participants to Handout