al., 2011, ‘Review of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition Implementation in West Africa: Summary Report’, www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/WESTAFRICA-CMAM-Synthesis-Oct2011-FANTA.pdf. 81 Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia (two factories), Kenya, Madagascar, Mozambique, Malawi (two factories), Niger and United Republic of Tanzania. 82 UNICEF, 2013b, ‘Global Evaluation of Community Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM): Global Synthesis Report’, 2013. www. unicef.org/evaldatabase/index_69843.html. 83 Deconinck, H., et al., 2011, ‘Review of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition Implementation in West Africa: Summary Report’, www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/WESTAFRICA-CMAM-Synthesis-Oct2011-FANTA.pdf. Programming In 2005, nine countries reported that SAM treatment was underway at varying levels of limited scale, mostly introduced as part of an emergency response.77 Between 2005 and 2008, there was an enormous increase in the number of countries implementing this approach, and by the end of 2013 the total was 67 countries78. Though data on numbers treated were incomplete, the UNICEF mapping exercise estimated a 2009 caseload of 1 million children admitted for treatment,79 rising to almost 2.9 million in 2013. The increase in the number of admissions reflects adoption of the approach in new countries as well as scale-up of existing programmes and improvements in reporting. Over half of the countries implementing SAM treatment have national nutrition policies that reflect communitybased management of acute malnutrition. A large part of the global burden of SAM is in countries where a national policy on CMAM is still absent. In at least half of the countries surveyed, progress was reported in integrating CMAM into primary health care activities. This was mainly through the addition of MUAC to identify SAM within integrated management of childhood illness and through links with IYCF and HIV/AIDS programmes. However, countries stressed the gap between integration at the level of policy and guideline documents and activity in health centres. By 2011, over half of the countries had stated a goal of national implementation of CMAM. Major barriers to scale-up were identified as political will, financial resources, human resource capacities, inadequate quality of implementation even at limited scale, poor monitoring and reporting, and 77 Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Haiti, Malawi, Niger, South Sudan, Republic of Sudan, Uganda and Zambia. 78 Note that there are at least eight other countries, which did not submit data to the NutriDash, but which have SAM programmes incountry (known from past data collection exercises). 79 The figure is only an approximation and underestimates the number of SAM cases admitted, as 10 countries did not supply caseloads, six provided estimates only