that outpatient care is free. • Further explain that the mother and her infant under 6 months of age will receive skilled feeding support while in outpatient care. Breastfeeding is extremely beneficial to an infant under 6 months of age because breast milk contains all the nutrients (food) and water the infant needs to grow well. • Make sure that volunteer case-finders are taking care to explain that after the child’s medical condition is evaluated at the outpatient care site, the child might need referral to inpatient care if her/his condition is serious. Most children will be treated as outpatients. • Reiterate that RUTF is not to be shared. A child who eats all the RUTF gains weight and is less likely to get sick and be referred to the hospital. Procedures • To reduce bounced referrals, align both referral and admission around the MUAC entry criterion, if this is not already the case. • In the short term, allow people from distant villages to return for outpatient care follow-on sessions twice a month and give them two weeks’ worth of RUTF. • In the intermediate term, consider opening more sites to provide weekly outpatient care follow-on sessions within everyone’s reach. • Give volunteers refresher training in bilateral pitting oedema and MUAC checks to improve the accuracy of referrals. Consider introducing a referral slip that identifies the referring volunteer to pinpoint the source of inaccurate referrals. • Institute procedures for case follow-up to ensure that children who miss an outpatient care follow-on session are visited at their homes (follow-up home visit) and that the families are urged to return to the service. • Give the outpatient care nurse the discretion to keep children with medical complications in outpatient care if, after making the risks clear to the mother/caregiver, she/he still refuses referral to inpatient care. • Use the village health committees to establish wider contact with traditional healers to discuss the CMAM service with them, listen to any concerns they have and encourage them to be trained in referring cases of SAM. • Encourage the village health committees to follow up on the suggestion of establishing a fund to cover costs related to referral between inpatient care and outpatient care (e.g., transportation). Use Exercise 8.3 as an example of local problem-solving in discussions with other sites and villages. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 154