poor market access is a key issue in the Merged Areas. Therefore, improvements in the agriculture market infrastructure are Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 73 suggested in order to enhance the physical access to key food commodities and stabilize the food prices in these areas. 2. Given that a large proportion of the households tend to rely on casual skilled and unskilled labour for their income, programmes to generate non-farm employment and diversified livelihoods must also be planned and designed. Access to food can be improved through the strengthening of social safety nets and maintaining year-round supplies. The generation of employment opportunities through developing entrepreneurship, small business and value chain service can also contribute to economic diversification. 3. Agricultural activities are still curtailed in the Merged Areas. Most of the households are net deficit farmers with a production that is insufficient to meet the food consumption needs of the family and are highly dependent on markets for most of their food needs. Livestock ownership is apparently low due to losses originating in displacement and distress selling. The households have been making efforts to rebuild their livestock herds. 4. It is important to identify the most vulnerable areas and populations by recognizing their priority needs in order to strategically plan for the requisite improvement in short and medium terms. It is necessary to strengthen the institutional settings and implementation procedures of social safety nets, to ensure a better and equitable food distribution and to expand coverage in the identified food insecure parts of the country. These steps could help in reducing the vulnerability of such communities. 5. The low involvement of women in livelihood activities is an area which requires focused and careful attention. Programmes to engage more women in activities that are culturally appropriate and accepted by the community such as kitchen gardening, backyard poultry raising, or other home-based income generating activities should be considered and designed in close consultation with women and the community. Other income generating activities such as embroidery, kitchen gardening, backyard poultry raising, livestock management and other home-based income generating activities should be encouraged. 6. Transport costs are a major contributor to food prices where traders consider transport costs as higher as or much higher than during the previous year. The main problems traders face in running their business smoothly include the lack of own capital, lack of