2018 Version 139 Module 8 Learning Objective 2: Describe How the Individual Infant or Child Is Tracked and Monitored in CMAM TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 8.1 Monitoring the Individual Infant or Child in Outpatient Care, Handout 8.2 Registration Numbering System Proposed for CMAM, Handout 8.3 Monitoring and Reporting on CMAM and Handout 8.4 Filing System for Outpatient Care Treatment Cards. ELICITATION: INFORMATION AND TOOLS FOR INDIVIDUAL MONITORING. Ask participants what tools they have encountered in their training that could help track infants and children in CMAM. How do each of these tools help? Fill in the gaps with the tools described below: • The infant’s or child’s unique registration number • Outpatient care treatment card: Each infant or child’s medical history, feeding information, physical examination, anthropometry, appetite, medical treatment and nutrition rehabilitation are monitored on an outpatient care treatment card. Progress of individual treatment is recorded through clinical signs, the mother/caregiver’s report of illness and anthropometry (mid-upper arm circumference [MUAC] and weight). • Ready-to-use therapeutic food (RUTF) ration card: The provision of RUTF per session is calculated based on the child’s weight and is recorded on an RUTF ration card, along with the session frequency • Referral slips: These forms, which use the infant or child’s unique registration number, are used to refer children from outpatient care to inpatient care and vice versa. Refer participants to Handout 8.1 Monitoring the Individual Infant or Child in Outpatient Care. Ask participants what other information is necessary to monitor the infant or child admitted to CMAM. Ask who is responsible for monitoring. Ask them to find the answers in Handout 8.1. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: REGISTRATION NUMBERS. Note to participants that individual infants and children enrolled in CMAM are tracked within outpatient care and when referred to other services. This ensures that admission, discharge and treatment procedures are followed and documented correctly, which allows health care providers to follow cases of children as necessary. Infants and children are registered upon admission to CMAM at the site where they first present and are assigned a unique registration number. This number is noted on their treatment card or health card (or in the registration book if one is used) and is used to track the infant or child while she/he is enrolled in CMAM. GROUP DISCUSSION: REGISTRATION NUMBERS. Draw the numbering system in Handout 8.2 Registration Numbering System Proposed for CMAM, Table 1 on a flip