a role in the decision. Surveys need to be in-depth enough to yield detailed and new findings on the bottlenecks and barriers. It is especially important that a survey adds value to prompt action and improvement, even if some challenges exist such as those related to capacity, budget or political will. C2. Overview of direct Coverage Assessment Methods149 Active and adaptive case-finding is used in the majority of cases for all the coverage methods discussed below. It is based on two principles 1. The method is active: SAM cases are specifically targeted. Case finders do not go house-to-house in the selected villages measuring all children aged between 6–59 months. Instead, only houses with children with locally understood and accepted descriptions of malnutrition and its signs are visited. 2. The method is adaptive: At the outset key informants help with case finding in the community but other sources of information found during the survey are used to improve the search for cases. 149 Information drawn from Guevarra, E., et al., ‘Assessment of Coverage of Community-based Management of Acute Malnutrition, CMAM Forum July 2012 Technical Brief, Version 2: September 2014’, http://www.coverage-monitoring.org/wpcontent/uploads/2014/10/Coverage-and-CMAM-2012-v2-sept2014. pdf. Fact sheet on Direct Coverage Assessment ANNEX C UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 82 Map showing the spatial distribution of point and period coverage in a CMAM programme produced using the CSAS method FIGURE 8 The method is tailored to the context for each assessment through community and beneficiary level investigations to ascertain the following: 1. The appropriate case finding question according to the terminology used by the population to describe the signs of SAM 2. The most useful key informants to assist with case-finding: those who are likely to be able to identify cases, who know about the health of children in the community or who people consult when their child is sick 3. Any context-specific factors affecting the casefinding process such as cultural norms, daily and seasonal activity patterns, general structure of villages The method, described in detail in the FANTA coverage manual150 is used exhaustively until only children already measured are identified. It has been found to be 100 per cent effective in identifying children with SAM when assessed alongside house to house methods in most contexts. CSAS CSAS was developed in 2002 as part of the community therapeutic care (CTC) research programme. It was used for programme M&E for several years. However, it was deemed too expensive