more likely to die than wellnourished children1. To address the high rates of acute malnutrition, community-based management of acute malnutrition (CMAM), which evolved from the Community-Based Therapeutic Care (CTC) approach, was developed in 20012. The approach aims to reach the maximum number of children with acute malnutrition and to ensure quality, access, and coverage by allowing a majority of children to be treated at many decentralised outpatient care sites. In many countries, CMAM was introduced as an emergency intervention, but it is now increasingly being integrated into routine health service delivery and scaled up as an essential solution for the management of acute malnutrition. Over 70 countries are currently implementing CMAM,3 with many of them integrating the management of severe acute malnutrition (SAM) into government policies. The CMAM approach consists of four main components: community outreach, outpatient care for the management of SAM without medical complications, inpatient care for the management of SAM with medical complications, and programmes for the management of moderate acute malnutrition (MAM), such as a supplementary feeding programme (SFP). The Scope of the Training Guide for CMAM This training guide focuses on the management of SAM in children 6–59 months of age and takes into account emerging evidence on the management of MAM and the “management of at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months of age (MAMI)”4. The training guide is designed to increase participants’ knowledge of and build practical skills to implement CMAM in emergency and non-emergency settings. The guide complements the WHO guidelines and protocols for the management of acute malnutrition and the WHO training modules for inpatient management of severely malnourished children5. The guide is intended to be adapted to the local context to ensure that national guidelines and protocols for the management of acute malnutrition and local models and materials are considered. Note that while national guidelines must be respected, this guide reflects evidence-based guidance and/or current best practices, unless otherwise stated. 1 Collins et al. 2006. Management of severe acute malnutrition in children. The Lancet. 368: 1992-2000. 2 Collins, S. 2004. “Community-Based Therapeutic Care: A New Paradigm for Selective Feeding in Nutritional Crisis.” Humanitarian Practice Network Paper 48. Overseas Development Institute (ODI). 3 UNICEF. 2014. Nutridash 2013: Global Report on the Pilot Year. New York: UNICEF. Available at: https://unicefeapronutritionwashtoolkit.files.wordpress.com/2017/09/unicef-global-nutridash-report-2013.pdf. 4 In 2017, this term was redefined from ‘management of acute malnutrition in infants under 6 months’ to ‘management of at-risk mothers