3. Access to essential health and nutrition services such as antenatal care, postnatal care and immunization, that are a condition for receiving the Nashonuma services. 4. Sustained high enrolment and participation in the program. Through social mobilization and word of mouth, eligible women and their families hear about the program and come forward to register, including families who were not yet enrolled in BISP Kafalaat. According to beneficiary testimonies, the combination of cash, access to quality health services and nutritious supplemental foods make the programme attractive to eligible women and their children. 5. Change of health and nutrition practices that are encouraged by the program, to the extent that families can adopt these (such as greater dietary diversity and optimal breastfeeding practices), the proportion of participants that participated in the impact evaluation who achieved these changes during the evaluation period remained low in both the study and control groups. Nashonuma programme: Partnerships for implementation The Nashonuma Programme is funded and managed by the Government of Pakistan under the Benazir Income Support Programme (BISP) and implemented together with the provincial Health Departments. The World Food Programme (WFP), in close partnerships with Health Departments, supports the management of the FCs and the procurement and supply chain management of the specialised nutritious foods which are sourced in Pakistan and transported across the country. The FCs are mostly located at secondary care health units (Tehsil Head Quarters), so that all services can be available to Nashonuma beneficiaries under one roof. Furthermore, they are located near to BISP centres so that any administrative requirements can be processed nearby. Meanwhile, the health services (ANC, PNC and immunization) can be obtained in any health facility, documentation of which should then be brought when visiting the FC. 8 BENAZIR NASHONUMA PROGRAMME Midline Evaluation Results Staff at the FCs also screen for, and manage, acutely malnourished children and women. Severe cases with medical complications, and infants under 6 months, are referred to one of the 169 nutrition stabilization centres (NSCs) supported by the World Health Organization (WHO). The NSCs have been established in close coordination with the respective health departments across the country and provide life-saving treatment to infants and children admitted for inpatient care. WHO ensures that the NSCs are well equipped through provision of therapeutic milk, essential equipment and placement and training of human resource. The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) provides locally produced Ready-to-Use Therapeutic Food