working groups of five participants. Ask the groups to: 1. Discuss needs and use of CMAM reports: -Who needs and who uses the report for what purposes -Who prepares the report? 2. Draft an outline for minimum reporting on CMAM and discuss the existing monitoring tools and how they feed information into the report Ask one group to share in plenary and other groups to share only additional information. Refer participants to Handout 8.14 Guidance on CMAM Reporting, ask them to read it quietly and to discuss in their groups any information they would add to their outline. OPTIONAL ACTIVITY EXTERNAL TRAINING: USING AN ELECTRONIC DATABASE. At the district level, coordinate a special training session on how to set up a CMAM monitoring system using an electronic database in Excel. If possible, ensure that there are sufficient computers available for participants to work in pairs. Become familiar with Supplemental Reference 8.1 Setting Up a CMAM Monitoring System Using an Electronic Database in Excel and Using a CMAM mHealth Application and have participants review this reference before the activity. Bring copies of completed site tally sheets, site reporting sheets and lists of outpatient and inpatient care sites (with names and locations of health facilities); pass them out to participants. Using Supplemental Reference 8.1, go through the setup step by step, making sure that participants understand the content and management of the software. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 158 Module 8 Wrap-Up and Module Evaluation SUGGESTED METHOD: Review learning objectives and complete evaluation form. Review the module’s learning objectives. In this module you have: • Described the principles of monitoring and reporting on CMAM • Described how the individual infant or child is tracked and monitored in CMAM • Completed site tally sheets and site and district reports, and interpreted the findings • Calculated and discussed service/programme performance and coverage • Monitored and responded to barriers to access • Explained the purpose of support and supervision visits and the role of a supervisor/mentor • Prepared an outline for CMAM reporting Ask for any questions and feedback on the module. Ask the following review questions: • How are individual infants and children tracked in a CMAM service? • What information is collected on site tally sheets and site and district reports? • What indicators are used to determine service performance? • What are the roles and responsibilities