the end). This helps the flow of milk. ▪ F100 diluted in put in a cup. The mother holds it ▪ The end of the tube is put in the cup ▪ The tip of the tube is put on the breast at the nipple and the infant is offered the breast in the normal way so that the infant attaches xxxviii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women properly. Some mothers find it better to tape the tube to the breast. ▪ When the infant suckles on the breast, with the tube in his mouth, the milk from the cup is sucked up through the tube and taken by the infant. ▪ At first an assistant needs to help the mother by holding the cup and the tube in place. ▪ The assistant should encourage the mother. After some time, mothers usually manage to hold the cup and tube without assistance. ▪ At first, the cup should be placed at about 5 to 10cm below the level of the nipple so the milk does not flow too quickly and distress the infant and the weak infant does not have to suckle excessively to take the milk. As the infant becomes stronger the cup should be lowered progressively to about 30cm below the breast. ▪ Raising or lowering the cup determines the ease with which the infant gets the supplement: for very weak infants it can be at the level of the infant’s mouth. If it is above this level there is danger of aspiration. ▪ It may take one or two days for the infant to get used of the tube and the taste of the mixture of milks, but it is important to persevere ▪ After feeding, the tube is flushed through with clean water using a syringe and then spun rapidly to remove the water. If possible the tube can then be left exposed to direct sunlight. Monitoring the infant ▪ Supplementation is not increased during the time in the inpatient facility. If there is an increase in weight this is due to increased quantity of breast milk. ▪ Weigh the baby daily with a graduated scale to within 20g. When the baby is gaining weight at 20g /day: ▪ Decrease the quantity of F100 diluted to one half of the maintenance intake ▪ If the weight