of medical complications, which included eye signs of vitamin A deficiency. The girl is now clinically well, has a good appetite, and received two doses of vitamin A on Day 1 and 2 of inpatient care for the treatment of vitamin A deficiency. It has been 5 days since she was discharged from inpatient care. − Bilateral pitting oedema: Grade + − Paracheck: Negative − Vaccination record: All up to date − Vitamin A: Day 1 and 2 of inpatient care Answer: Give amoxicillin 3 times per day for 7 days; do not give malaria treatment; do not give measles vaccination (given after 4 weeks). Give the third dose of vitamin A (on day 15) to complete the treatment of eye signs.  Patient 2: Boy, age 18 months − New admission − Bilateral pitting oedema: No − Paracheck: Positive − Vaccination record: Incomplete − Vitamin A last given: 6 months ago Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 73 Answer: Give amoxicillin 3 times per day for 7 days; give malaria treatment according to protocol; give measles vaccination on week four or as soon as possible, plus other vaccines as per expanded programme of immunisation (EPI); do not give vitamin A because it is already in the RUTF.  Patient 3: Girl, 15 months − Second visit to outpatient care − Bilateral pitting oedema: grade + − Paracheck: Negative − Vaccination record: Incomplete − Vitamin A last given: 4 months ago − Amoxicillin last given: Week one on admission Answer: Give medendazole or other deworming; give measles vaccination on week four as well as other vaccines as per EPI; do not give malaria treatment; do not give vitamin A because it is already in the RUTF. REVIEW AND REFERENCE: Direct participants to Handout 4.9 Supplemental Medicines for SAM in Outpatient Care. Review briefly the supplemental medicines on Handout 4.9 and in what circumstances they would be given. Answer any questions. Direct participants to Handout 4.10 Medicine Protocol Rationale for Outpatient Care (Reference) to be used for their reference in the future. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 74 Module 4 Learning Objective 5: Explain Nutrition Rehabilitation for the Management of SAM Without Medical Complications in Outpatient Care (Children 6–59 Months) TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 4.11 Nutrition Rehabilitation and RUTF for Children 6–59 Months. DEMONSTRATION: TASTING RUTF. Form small groups