that children can be treated effectively as outpatients. The community should fully understand the purpose of the programme and why it is important to identify and treat malnourished children. Effective links between health facilities and the community are essential to ensure that malnourished children are appropriately identified, referred and followed up. Community providers are on the front line and are well placed to explore and address some of the reasons why children become malnourished in the first place. The purpose of community outreach is to: ▪ Promote understanding and ownership of the programme. ▪ Increase programme coverage. ▪ Strengthen active case finding, referral and follow up. ▪ Understand reasons why people do not access services (barriers to access) and reasons for absence and default so that they can be addressed). ▪ Link prevention of malnutrition and treatment of malnutrition at the community level, so that while children are being effectively treated, the underlying causes can also be addressed. Protocols and reference sheets Annex 1: Measuring malnutrition (need a picture of a colour coded tape) Annex 2: Referral slip from community provider to health facility Annex 3: Home visit form Basic requirements for community outreach WHO conducts community outreach: Community outreach is usually the role of community providers – this includes Lady Health Workers, Lady Health Visitors and community health workers. Community volunteers can also be recruited to assist with case finding and follow up. WHERE: Community outreach takes place at the community level. Community providers should be present at OTP to assist health care providers and to ensure effective linkages between the health facility and community. WHEN: Active case finding and follow up is ongoing. Community meetings with key stakeholders and focus group discussions with community members and/or the caretakers for children in the programme can be held periodically to raise awareness about the programme and to investigate any issues such as high default. Basic supplies ▪ MUAC tapes ▪ Referral slips in duplicate copy ▪ Home visit form ix National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Understanding the community structures and perceptions It is essential to understand and have information on community structures (formal and informal), key stakeholders (community leaders, religious leaders, traditional practitioners and community based organisations). It is important to know who makes key decisions and who is responsible for children as well as community attitudes to