Handout 2.1 Causal Framework of Undernutrition Handout 2.2 Undernutrition Definitions, Indices, Indicators, and Indicator Cutoffs 2. Identify the Clinical Signs of Acute Malnutrition 15 minutes Handout 2.3 Clinical Manifestations of Acute Malnutrition 3. Measure, Calculate, and Classify Acute Malnutrition 1 hour, 15 minutes (1¼ hours) Handout 2.4 Assessing Age, Bilateral Pitting Oedema, MUAC, Weight, and Height Handout 2.5 Weight-for-Height/Length Tables for Field Use Exercise 2.1 Grades of Bilateral Pitting Oedema Exercise 2.2 Calculating WFH/WFL and Classifying Acute Malnutrition 4. Assess and Classify Nutritional Vulnerability in AtRisk Mothers and Infants Under 6 Months of Age 45 minutes Handout 2.6 C-MAMI Tool Version 2.0 Wrap-Up and Module Evaluation 15 minutes Module Duration: 3 hours Note: Depending on the needs of their audiences, trainers may choose to skip or spend more or less time on certain learning objectives and activities. The module duration is an estimate of the time it takes to complete all the learning objectives and activities. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 28 Materials • Blank cards • Flip chart, markers • Masking tape • Cards with headings: Basic, Underlying, Immediate, and Consequences • Sets of cards with undernutrition terms and sets of cards with matching definitions • Calculators (only needed if training covers WFH/WFL) • Salter scales (calibrated to zero [“0”]) • Electronic scale (e.g., UNISCALE) (calibrated to zero [“0”]) • Height/length boards (only needed if training covers WFH/WFL) • Numbered and simple three-colour MUAC tapes • Photos of children with marasmus, kwashiorkor, and marasmic kwashiorkor Advance Preparation • Room setup, materials noted above • Review all participant handouts • Arrangements should be made for participants to conduct anthropometric measurements of children in the context of ongoing screening or CMAM services • Review relevant reference and further reading resources listed below. Reference Resources 1. Emergency Nutrition Network (ENN). 2018. C-MAMI Tool Version 2.0. Available at https://www.ennonline.net/c-mami. 2. Food and Nutrition Technical Assistance III Project (FANTA). 2018. Anthropometry Pocket References for Children and Adolescents. Available at: https://www.fantaproject.org/tools/anthropometry-pocketreference. 3. Cashin, K. and Oot, L. 2018. Guide to Anthropometry: A Practical Tool for Program Planners, Managers, and Implementers—Module 6: Protocols and Equipment. Washington, DC: FANTA/FHI 360. (For reference material on weight and height equipment and on where to purchase equipment and available kits.) Available at: https://www.fantaproject.org/sites/default/files/resources/MODULE6-FANTA-Anthropometry-Guide-May2018.pdf. 4. Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). 2008. Guidelines for Estimating the Month and Year of Birth of Young Children. Available at: