< 6 Months SAM” and 2 should be added to the “New 6-59 months MUAC/WFH” box. The tally sheet for Week 1 should read: One < 6 months admission, two MUAC admissions, three total admissions. There are no exits for Week 1. Week 2 In Week 2, the “total in outpatient care at the start of the week” box is updated with the information from Week 1 (three cases). In the admissions section, outpatient care case 4 should be added to the bilateral pitting oedema box and to the “referred to inpatient care” section under exits because the child has bilateral pitting oedema +++ and requires inpatient care. The child has been entered and exited from the Yirba Health Facility and is now being treated in inpatient care. Outpatient care case 5 should be added to the “weight-for-height/weight-for-length [WFH/WHL]” new admission box. The tally for Week 2 should read: three in outpatient care at start of week, one bilateral pitting oedema admission, one WFH/WFL admission, one exit as referral to inpatient care, two total admissions, one exit as a referral and four total in outpatient care at end of week. Week 3 In the Week 3 tally sheet, the total in outpatient care at the start of the week should be four. In the admission section, outpatient care case 6 should be added to the bilateral pitting oedema box. This case does not require inpatient care because the child has bilateral pitting oedema ++, which can be treated in outpatient care. There is also one MUAC admission. The tally for Week 3 should read: Four total in outpatient care at start of week, one bilateral pitting oedema admission, one MUAC admission, two total admissions, no discharges, no total discharges, six total in outpatient care at end of week. Week 4 In the Week 4 tally sheet, the total in outpatient care at the start of the week should be six. The bilateral pitting oedema +++ case that was referred to inpatient care returns to outpatient care this week and should be added to the admission as an old case “from outpatient/inpatient care” box. The tally for Week 4 should read: Four new admissions: three MUAC cases and one WFH/WFL case. The total in outpatient care should be 11. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 148 Exercise 8.2 Yirba Outpatient Care Site Tally Sheet (with answers)