i National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Ministry of Health May, 2010 National Guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women ii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women These guidelines are a living document and will be subject to revision as new evidence and best practices emerge. iii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women CONTENT Page No. Foreword iv Acknowledgement v Abbreviations and terms vi How to use these guidelines? 1 An Overview of CMAM 2 Section 1: Community Outreach 6 Section 2: Outpatient Therapeutic Programme (OTP) 10 Section 3: Inpatient Care 21 Section 4: Supplementary Feeding Programme (SFP) 42 Section 5: Monitoring and Reporting 49 Annexure: 1. Anthropometric measurement techniques 2. Community provider’s referral slip 3. Home visit record form 4. Target weight gain for discharge 5. OTP Card (Enrolment details: outpatient therapeutic programme) 6. Action Protocol (OTP) 7. OTP transfer and referral slips 8. Key messages for OTP 9. Routine medical protocol for OTP 10. RUTF ration for OTP 11. OTP ration card for caretakers 12. Iron and Folic acid doses 13. Malaria protocol for OTP 14. Additional medicines for severe acute malnutrition in OTP 15. Paracetamol and Metronidazole doses 16. History and examination form for use in inpatient care 17. Inpatient care card 18. Routine medicine for children with acute malnutrition (>6 months) in inpatient care 19. Treatment of Complication in the severely malnourished child 20. Amount of F75 to give in phase 1 (inpatient care) 21. Amount of F100 to give in transition phase 22. Recipes for F75 and F100 23. Transfer slip from inpatient care to OTP 24. SFP Ration Card 25. Referral slip from SFP to OTP 26. Routine medicines for acute malnutrition in infants < 6 months: in-patient care 27. SFP routine medicines 28. Monthly report format 29. Performance indicator and calculating rates 30. Supervision checklist iv National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Malnutrition in Pakistan contributes to high morbidity among pregnant and lactating women and morbidity and mortality among children under five. Many cases of acute malnutrition become severe and complicated due to delays in case detection and presentation at