pit (indentation) in both feet after the thumb is lifted Severe wasting • A sign of SAM • MUAC < 115mm in children 6–59 months • Or WFH/WFL z-score < -3 A child with severe wasting has a high risk of death Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 33 Module 2 Learning Objective 2: Identify the Clinical Signs of Acute Malnutrition TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 2.3 Clinical Manifestations of Acute Malnutrition. BRAINSTORM AND WORKING GROUPS: CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS OF ACUTE MALNUTRITION. In plenary, ask participants if they can name the three clinical manifestations of acute malnutrition: • Marasmus (severe wasting) • Kwashiorkor (bilateral pitting oedema) • Marasmic kwashiorkor (severe wasting and bilateral pitting oedema) Divide participants into working groups and ask them to name the characteristics of clinical manifestations of acute malnutrition: marasmus, kwashiorkor and marasmic kwashiorkor. Have one group present their answers and the other groups add additional points. Fill in any gaps. Refer participants to Handout 2.3 Clinical Manifestations of Acute Malnutrition and review the classifications together. Invite and answer any questions. PRACTICE: CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS. Show pictures of children with marasmus, kwashiorkor and marasmic kwashiorkor and ask participants to classify them by clinical manifestation. Answer any questions. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 34 Module 2 Learning Objective 3: Measure, Calculate, and Classify Acute Malnutrition TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 2.4 Assessing Age, Bilateral Pitting Oedema, MUAC, Weight and Height and Handout 2.5 Weight-for-Height/Length Tables for Field Use. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: ASSESSING AGE. Ask participants if they know when estimation of a child’s age is important. Note that age is relevant because the cases of infants under 6 months and children 6–59 months are managed differently. In cases where the age of the child cannot be verified through a child health card (CHC) or immunisation card, methods of estimating age include: • Estimating the month and year of birth with the help of a local events calendar. • Recall of the mother/caregiver which is easier to estimate in infants and younger children. • For older children, age may be estimated based on height. The standard international proxy for children 59 months is 110 cm. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: BILATERAL PITTING OEDEMA. Describe how bilateral pitting is assessed (see Handout 2.4), noting that it is important that both feet are tested. If it is neither bilateral nor pitting, the oedema is not