people have no permanent source of income, the situation has further been aggravated with the deterioration in the law and order situation for more than a decade. Major Livelihood Strategies According to the CFSLA majority (65%) of the households are dependent on unsustainable34 livelihood strategies for earning livelihood, while the remaining (35%) depend on somewhat sustainable35 sources. Households are practicing subsistence agriculture and livestock raising, people seek employment in local law enforcement forces, while majority rely on unskilled daily labour (agriculture and non-agriculture). The survey reveals that around 26.8 percent of households in the Merged Areas rely on ‘Day Labour Farming Activities ‘and 25.9 percent on non-agricultural labour, an additional 14 percent rely on regular job (private or government), while11.6 percent are skilled workers OR having their own business (12 percent). It is also important to note that ‘remittances (local/foreign)’ are 5.3 percent which is relatively higher than settled Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Additionally, 0.7 percent of surveyed household are registered in some ‘social 34 Day Labour farming and non-farming, skilled labour, loans, income support, aid 35 Selling of own produced crop, livestock products/live animals, Own business/trade, Handicrafts by women, Regular Job (private or government), Remittances Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 40 protection’ through ‘Receive income support/Zakat’. A negligible number of households reported to have received loans from relatives or friends. As a secondary source of livelihood, overall 63.5 percent of the households reported having ‘no secondary source’ of income/livelihood. Majority (92.6 percent) households in TSD Tank followed by TSD DI Khan (86.7 percent) and TSD Lakki (7.45 percent) are having only one livelihood source. Households having secondary source of income/livelihood, ‘Non-Agriculture Labour; 9.4 percent as their second source ‘, 6.9 percent rely on ‘Day Labour farming activities’ followed by 4.8 percent, which is earned as ‘Skilled worker’. Households Income and Expenditure Households were asked about their total monthly income, by all members and from all sources, in the preceding month (June 2019) of the survey. The average household income was recorded as PKR28,967. Among the TSDs, the highest average income was recorded at TSD Kohat as PKR36,893, whereas the lowest was recorded at TSD Tank as PKR22,242. Among the Districts, the highest income was recorded at District Mohmand as PKR32,380 while the lowest at District Bajaur as PKR 24,509. Similarly, households were also asked about their major expenditure in the same