68.2 5.0 < -3 Severe (marasmic kwashiorkor) Child 8 M 1 Red 84.3 8.9 = -3 z Severe (MUAC) Child 9 F 2 114 97.2 11 < -2 and > -3 Severe (MUAC) Child 10 M 1.5 + Green 89.7 12.9 = median Severe (bilateral pitting oedema) Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 39 Module 2 Learning Objective 4: Assess and Classify Nutritional Vulnerability in At-Risk Mothers and Infants Under 6 Months of Age TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 2.6 C-MAMI Tool Version 2.0. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: ASSESS AND CLASSIFY NUTRITION VULNERABILITY OF ATRISK MOTHERS AND INFANTS UNDER 6 MONTHS OF AGE (MOTHER-INFANT PAIR). Using the text in Handout 2.6 C-MAMI Tool Version 2.0 as a reference, review the steps for assessing infants under 6 months of age and their mothers. Highlight the following areas: • Triage the infant to check for general danger signs or signs of severe disease. Explain that triaging should follow the assessment protocols for integrated management of childhood illness (IMCI) and actions should be taken according to IMCI or the national guidelines. For mothers: Check for severe depression, anxiety, and/or distress. • Feeding assessment for the breastfed infant—Identify breastfeeding problems (attachment, suckling, frequency of breastfeeds, and giving water and/or other liquids/foods) and abnormalities. For mothers: Identify any breast conditions and perception of not having enough breast milk. • For the non-breastfed infant-mother/caregiver—Determine the infant’s birth history, whether the mother is the primary caregiver, whether the infant was ever breastfed, the infant’s access to breastmilk substitute and quantity consumed, and the possibility of wet nursing. • Clinical assessment of the following in the infant—Any jaundice, severe pallor/anaemia, diarrhoea, vomiting, dehydration, and chest in-drawing signs; any possible underlying conditions such as HIV or TB; pre-term or low birth weight; thrush; and multiple delivery. For mothers: Assess for severe anaemia. • Anthropometric assessment will involve WFL and WFA, review of the child weight and growth chart, and assessment of bilateral pitting oedema and any other complications. Remind participants that there is growing evidence on the use of MUAC in infants under 6 months of age. However, cutoff points are yet to be established; therefore it is important to collect data on MUAC to generate evidence in this area. For mothers: Assess MUAC. • Maternal mental health assessment—Check for signs and symptoms of depression, anxiety, and distress. Additionally, assess the food security situation and the