urgently. In order to determine the presence of oedema, normal thumb pressure is applied to the both feet for three seconds. If a shallow print persists on the both feet, then the child presents oedema. Only children with bilateral oedema are recorded as having nutritional oedema. You must test for oedema with finger pressure you cannot tell by just looking Grading of oedema Grades of Oedema Definition Absent Absent Grade + Mild: both feet/ankles Grade + + Moderate: both feet, plus lower legs, hands, or lower arms Grade + + + Severe: generalized oedema including both feet, legs, hands, arms and face lx National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Measuring Mid Upper Arm Circumference (MUAC) The MUAC is used to see if the child is malnourished or not. 1. Keep your work at eye level. Sit down when possible. Very young children can be held by their mother during this procedure. Ask the mother to remove clothing that may cover the child’s left arm. 2. Calculate the midpoint of the child’s left upper arm by first locating the tip of the child’s shoulder (arrows 1 and 2) with your finger tips. Bend the child’s elbow to make the right angle (arrow 3). Place the tape at zero, which is indicated by two arrows, on the tip of the shoulder (arrow 4) and pull the tape straight down past the tip of the elbow (arrow 5). Read the number at the tip of the elbow to the nearest centimetre. Divide this number by two to estimate the midpoint. As an alternative, bend the tape up to the middle length to estimate the midpoint. A piece of string can also be used for this purpose. Mark the midpoint with a pen on the arm (arrow 6). 3. Straighten the child’s arm and wrap the tape around the arm at the midpoint. Make sure the numbers are right side up. Make sure the tape is flat around the skin (arrow 7). 4. Inspect the tension of the tape on the child’s arm. Make sure the tape has the proper tension (arrow 7) and is not too tight or too loose (arrows 8 and 9). Repeat any step as necessary. 5. When the tape is in the correct position on the arm with correct tension, read and call out the measurement to the