commitment to management of SAM and the strength of coordination mechanisms may need to be addressed before developing operational scale-up plans (see page 21 and 30 for more guidance in these areas). Common bottlenecks include: • Lack of central operational plans for scale-up • Lack of cross-sectoral buy-in or participation in planning • Insufficient reflection of SAM in wider health and nutrition sector or cluster action plans However, there are drawbacks associated with focusing the strategic review only on the health system. While this approach can facilitate uptake of the management of SAM approach by all health staff, it can also limit the uptake of critical cross-sectoral aspects, particularly for community mobilization. It is clear that a strong community component is crucial for geographic and treatment coverage of SAM (Guerrero et al. 201034). Therefore, strategic advocacy for incorporating SAM management into wider food security and development policies will be needed to reflect the approach in its entirety. General guidance on nutrition agenda-setting may be useful to apply to the experience with SAM (Pelletier et al. 201235). More specifically, bringing management of SAM into national policy agendas and within health structures and systems, including financing, has been facilitated in various interconnected ways (see box 17). Resources All UNICEF-supported countries are attempting to build capacities for management of SAM at all levels – community, health facility, district, subnational and national. Most governments are either unable or have not yet made a commitment to provide resources from domestic budgets for CMAM scale up. Both UNICEF and NGOs are being called on to respond to government and community needs for scaling up SAM management. Ensuring a long-term commitment to develop the capacity of health and community systems is challenging when funding is short term (for supplies and programming) and when it is extremely donor dependent (when little allocation comes from the government). For the most part, at the global level, financing for management of SAM displays both these characteristics. 34 Guerrero, S. et al., 2010, “Determinants of coverage in communitybased therapeutic care programmes: towards a joint quantitative and qualitative analysis,” Disasters 34 (2): 571-85, www.ncbi.nlm.nih. gov/pubmed/20002705. 35 Pelletier, D.L. et al., 2012, “Nutrition agenda setting, policy formulation and implementation: lessons from the Mainstreaming Nutrition Initiative,” Health Policy Plan 27(1): 19-31. http://www.ncbi. nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21292709. GOOD PRACTICES FOR ADDRESSING BOTTLENEKCS IN SCALING UP 33 • Workload and motivation of community-level workers and volunteers • Rotation of staff