at national Guidance point: A phased approach to scale-up A phased approach has proved a successful way to drive scale-up while maintaining quality (for e.g., in Malawi). In this approach. expansion to new districts and within districts is based on specific criteria such as: • Demand from the district and/or identification of districts with high SAM prevalence • Demonstrated quality of service • Availability of resources (funds, supplies, skilled personnel) • Availability of qualified technical personnel to provide training and sufficient follow-up • Availability of supervision and support mechanisms BOX 4 PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 13 It may also be useful for ministry of health (MoH) officials or other stakeholders to visit countries where the management of SAM has been scaled up while maintaining programme quality. Similarly, countries who have scaled up and maintained quality are also encouraged to document and share their lessons learned more widely. Lessons from similar contexts – such as in the same geographic region or with similar urban/rural characteristics – should be sought and taken into account when planning. Decision-making, in particular, when moving from limited area provision to national implementation, should be based on experience from pilots and other limited implementation, bearing in mind the context and capacities of the countries’ structures and systems (which have been assessed through processes outlined in step 3). The design aspects that ministries of health will have to consider are outlined in the following subsections. Ensure harmonized national guidelines are in place and supported by all actors Conflicting guidelines can cause confusion. Where different agencies use different protocols for treatment of SAM, particularly for admission criteria, the result is frustration for both government staff and communities, and an overall reduction in uptake of life-saving services. Alternatively, where both nationaland field-level stakeholders are involved in developing the guidelines and tailoring their application to the country context, the stage is set for coherent programming. It is therefore critical to use a harmonized approach in developing and adapting national guidelines for treatment of SAM that incorporates the latest evidence-based recommendations and takes into account other relevant services such as management of MAM. Resources with internationally recognized protocols and other country guideline examples are useful to inform development of country guidelines (see annexes E and G, so the process of adapting them to meet country needs and experiences must be highly Guidance point: Examples of targets for scale-up • Extend