from in-patient care but meets inpatient care enrolment criteria again Return after default Children who return after default (away from in-patient care for 2 consecutive days) if they meet the admission criteria xxvi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Admission procedure STEP 1: Triage urgent cases ▪ Identify and treat urgent cases first ▪ Give sugar water 10% to all children who arrive (2 teaspoons of sugar per 100ml water or 20 teaspoons in one litre of water ) STEP 2: Anthropometric (MUAC, weight, and oedema) assessment Measurements need to be taken to confirm measurements and for monitoring purposes even if they have been taken elsewhere. ▪ Measure MUAC (Annex 1). ▪ Check for oedema and measure the grade (Annex 1). ▪ Measure weight (Annex 1). ▪ Calculate target weight using 15% weight gain chart (only necessary if there is no OTP and child must remain in inpatient care). If the child is not malnourished, but the child is sick refer the child for further medical investigation. STEP 3: Medical Assessment The child must be thoroughly assessed by a skilled trained health care provider (even if a medical examination has been conducted elsewhere). The transfer slip from OTP will provide information on the findings of other health caretakers and this information should be carefully noted and recorded. The assessment includes taking a history of the child’s condition from the mother/caretaker and a full medical examination to determine the exact medical condition of the child (Annex 16). ▪ Take a medical and dietary history and conduct and physical examination (Annex 16) Record results on the inpatient card (Annex 17). ▪ If severe oedema and marasmic-kwashiorkor is absent and if the child has appetite and no medical complications: ▪ Refer moderately acutely malnourished children to SFP (if it is available). ▪ Refer severely acutely malnourished children to OTP if available (must have an appetite for RUTF). ▪ Complete a transfer slip to OTP (Annex 23). Children 6-59 months xxvii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women STEP 4: Inpatient care admission ▪ Explain the situation to the caretaker and make sure he/she consents to stay in in-patient care. ▪ Fill out an inpatient card. ▪ Assign a number (use the same number on the transfer slip if child is from OTP).