will not attend and there will be no benefit. One approach in cases where current capacity is limited is a stepped increase in decentralization as capacity is built at each level. • At the health facility: It is also important to decide: • At which points children will be identified: The goal should be to identify children at all points where they come into contact with health providers. At these points MUAC should be routinely measured to identify and refer children with SAM. Screening for SAM is particularly important in hospital settings, which have many contact points in different departments, as well as the outpatient clinic, where acutely malnourished children may inclusive. Though the adaptation process may take time, the result will be heightened ownership and capacity. In most countries guidelines have been developed concurrently with introduction of the approach. But if this has not been the case, guidelines must be developed as part of the review and scale-up process (UNICEF 2008). Existing guidelines can be revised as part of scaleup planning to ensure they incorporate lessons from initial implementation and new evidence on treatment protocols. Decide what to implement and where Integration with national structures and systems is widely viewed as an efficient way to use resources and increase coverage. But country experience shows that how management of SAM fits within existing structures and systems must be specific to the context, and will not necessarily look the same from country to country. Whether SAM treatment is part of Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) or Integrated Community Case Management of Childhood Illness (ICCM), and whether SAM treatment is delivered at the level of health clinic or health post depends on the capacity of those programmes and structures. Careful assessment is needed to decide at what level to implement inpatient, outpatient and community components of care for the treatment of SAM: hospital, health centre, health clinic, health post or community. Currently, outpatient care is generally implemented at health centre and clinic level. In some countries (for example, Ethiopia13 and Niger) (Chamois) SAM treatment is implemented by health extension workers based in health posts; in others (for example, Bangladesh14) (Sadler et al.) by community volunteers or mobile teams (see box 6). Bringing services closer to the population, avoiding the need for parents to travel for long distances (which often means 13 Chamois, S., “Decentralisation and scale up of outpatient management of