the SAM burden in the programme target area but a mix of different surveys (e.g. MICS and SMART) are used to calculate the national burden, there may be a noticeable discrepancy in the figures since the methodology is not the same. If there is a noticeable discrepancy, the likely reasons should be noted in programme planning documents and reporting. Method 2B: Mixing/matching data sources (e.g. SMART and MICS). For instance, in Country X with 8 provinces, programmes are operating in 4 provinces. SMART surveys were conducted in 3 provinces and SAM prevalence data from MICS is available for the other province. The target area burden would be calculated by province using the different SAM prevalence (from SMART and MICS) with the incidence correction factor and 6-59m populations for each province. The province level burden would then be added together to generate the national estimated burden. Method 3B: Use aggregated target area figures. The aggregated target area SAM prevalence figure (e.g. the aggregation of the different SAM prevalences figures from different regions/ provinces as per the example above) would be used with the total target area population, as follows: Target Area Burden = target area population 6-59m x aggregate target area prevalence x 2.6 ANNEX A 73 A2. Estimating programme targets for SAM It is often not possible to reach all estimated cases of SAM. A specific target needs to be set, based on capacity and context. There are several ways of doing so depending on whether it is a new or existing programme. Method 1: Setting targets for SAM programming in new areas/country Estimating programme targets for operations in a new area or country needs to take account of planned geographical target area for service delivery and intended target treatment coverage. Target = Population 6–59m in geographical target area** x Prevalence x 2.6 x treatment coverage (%) ** Calculated from total population in the geographical target area (n) x estimated proportion of children 6–59m in the population (%) Depending on the stage of the programme, the target treatment coverage may be based on Sphere standards,144 experiences documented in well-run CMAM programmes in a similar context or on a gradual building up from existing health facility coverage. For example, a target of 50 per cent may be used for the first six months of the programme, rising to 70 or 80 per cent at the end of the first year in