IV fluids. The treatment of heart failure takes precedence over feeding the child. No fluid should be given until the heart failure is improved, even if this takes 24–48 hours. Small amounts of sugar water can be given orally to prevent hypoglycaemia. • Give a diuretic IV. The most appropriate choice is furosemide (1 mg/kg). • Do not give digitalis unless the diagnosis of heart failure is unequivocal (jugular venous pressure is elevated) and the plasma potassium level is normal. In that case, 5mg/kg of body weight of digoxin may be given IV as a single dose, or orally, if the IV preparation is not available. • If heart failure is associated with severe anaemia, the treatment of the heart failure takes precedence over the treatment of anaemia. A patient in heart failure should not be transfused unless there is experience and the necessary facilities to deal with exchange transfusion. • Children with oedema can go into heart failure without a gain in weight, if the expanded circulation is due to oedema fluid being mobilised from the tissues to the vascular space. Initial over-treatment can lead to death several days later from heart failure when intracellular sodium (marasmus and oedematous malnutrition) and oedema fluid are being mobilised. All children have a fall in Hb during the early phase in treatment. This is known as “dilutional anaemia” and should not be transfused. xcv National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Hypoglycaemia Hypoglycaemia can be a sign of infection or can occur when the child has to travel far to reach the in-patient care facility. Sugar water should be given to children on arrival at the health facility. Hypoglycaemia and hypothermia often occur together. Check for hypoglycaemia whenever hypothermia is found. Frequent feeds will usually prevent hypoglycaemia occurring. Diagnosis of hypoglycaemia There are often no signs of hypoglycaemia. One sign that does occur in malnourished children is eye-lid retraction (gives a staring appearance to the eyes or causes the child to sleep with his/her eyes open). Treatment of hypoglycaemia If the patient is conscious or can be roused and is able to drink: • Give 50 ml of 10% glucose or sucrose (sugar). Or • Give F-75 diet by mouth If the child is losing consciousness, cannot be aroused or has convulsions: • Give IV sterile 10% glucose (5ml/kg), followed by 50ml