food secure, moderately food insecure and severely food insecure. Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 16 Food Consumption Score The Food Consumption Score (FCS) is a proxy indicator used by WFP to provide a relatively easy way to compute the overall adequacy of food consumption at the household level. It combines elements of diversity and frequency by considering the number of days in a week when consumption of foods from eight different food groups is reported. The FCS is computed as a weighted sum of the frequency of consumption of the various food groups, using indices of the relative nutritional importance of different food groups as weights. Weights used are as follows: This yields an overall score that can range from a minimum of 0 (if a hypothetical household would report having consumed nothing over seven days) to a maximum of 112. Households are then classified into three food consumption level groups, based on the reported score: poor (FSC < 28), borderline (FSC 28-42) and acceptable (FSC > 42) food consumption levels. Household Dietary Diversity Score The Households’ Dietary Diversity Score (HDDS) measures the number of different food groups consumed by household members over the past seven days. It provides an estimation of the quality of a diet. DDS is calculated based on data collected for the Food Consumption Score (FCS). Out of the 8 groups, only the first seven groups are used for DDS (excluding sugar/sweet from 8 groups used in FCS module). One point is assigned for each food group consumed without considering the frequency (1-7 days are converted in value of 1). The indicator results in the sum of the number of consumed food groups (from 0 to 7). DDS is not an average for one day. Based on DDS, dietary diversity is ranked in 3 groups: Low diet diversity (DDS is less than 4.5), Medium (DDS= 4.5 6), and High (DDS is above 6). A high proportion of energy derived from staple cereals is an indication of poor dietary diversity, while those with better dietary diversity likely have a lower proportion of their total energy from staple cereals and consume more nutritious foods. Food Security Findings Prevalence of Moderate or Severe Food Insecurity (FIES) based on the Food Insecurity Experience Scale (FIES) (SDG indicator 2.1.2) The CFSLA presented the opportunity to test the application of the Food Insecurity Experience