death. Though Sphere targets for treatment coverage27 in rural and camp settings are proving to be routinely attainable at the district level in emergency programmes, experience is showing that it is challenging to achieve these levels of coverage with the less intensive support that characterizes national programmes. The targets are also proving hard to attain in urban settings where community mobilization has particular challenges. As direct assessment of treatment coverage becomes more common in non-emergency contexts and as it is increasingly applied to assess treatment coverage at subnational and national levels, more information will accumulate 26 UNICEF, ‘Core Commitments for Children in Humanitarian Action’, 2010, www.unicef.org/publications/index_21835.html. 27 For more information on coverage and definitions, please see page 28, page 58, and annex A. Guidance point: Criteria for measuring programme performance • Supply chain functions/stock-outs • Human resources • Access to services/geographical coverage • Continuity of treatment • Treatment coverage • Effectiveness of treatment • Integration into health systems BOX 13 Guidance point: Sphere performance indicators for SAM management • More than 90 per cent of the target population is within less than one day’s walk of the programme site, including time for treatment and walk home. • Coverage is greater than 50 per cent in rural areas, 70 per cent in urban areas and 90 per cent in camp situations. (For current guidance consult relevant forums.) • The proportion of discharges from therapeutic care who have died is less than 10 per cent, recovered is greater than 75 per cent and defaulted is less than 15 per cent. Note: • Coverage in the Sphere standards refers to individuals who need treatment against those actually treated (e.g., treatment coverage) • Performance indicators should combine inpatient and outpatient care outcomes without double counting (i.e., by removing transfers between the two components). • The population of discharged individuals consists of those who have recovered, died, defaulted or not recovered. Individuals who are referred to other services (e.g., medical services) have not ended treatment and are not considered discharged. Source: Sphere 2011. There Sphere Project. Humanitarian Charter and Minimum Standards in Humanitarian Response. 2011, www.sphereproject.org/handbook/ BOX 14 on appropriate targets and the time frames required to meet them in non-emergency programmes. Sharing coverage experiences on the forums outlined in annex G is therefore important. Capture and analyse programme outcome data and provide feedback Capturing reliable programme information is a critical but often overlooked part