Annex 1: Anthropometric measurement techniques Annex 4: Target weight gain for discharge Annex 5: OTP card (Enrolment details: Outpatient therapeutic programme) Annex 6: Action protocol (OTP)* Annex 7: OTP transfer and referral slips Annex 8: Key messages for OTP* Annex 9: Routine medical protocol for OTP* Annex 10: RUTF ration for OTP)* Annex 11: OTP ration card for caretakers Annex 12: Iron and Folic acid doses Annex 13: Malaria protocol for OTP Annex 14: Additional medicines for severe acute malnutrition in OTP Annex 15: Paracetamol and metronidazole doses Enrolment in OTP WHO should be enrolled in OTP? Severely acutely malnourished children aged 6-59 months with appetite (ability to eat RUTF) and without medical complications who meet the enrolment criteria. Infants less than 6 months cannot eat RUTF therefore severely malnourished infants < 6 months should be referred to inpatient care since they require supervised specific treatment. Other cases such as: ▪ Mothers/caretakers who refuse transfer to inpatient care. Where the mother/caretaker refuses transfer to inpatient care despite advice and counselling, the child should be carefully monitored in the OTP and followed up by community health workers. xiv National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Others reasons for OTP enrolment: ▪ Transfer from inpatient care: Children who have been transferred from the OTP to inpatient care because of complications and then return to OTP are already included in the programme. Children who present directly at inpatient care and are then transferred for continued treatment in OTP are counted as newly enrolled in the OTP. ▪ Transfer from other OTP site: Families moving from one area to another should plan the move with clinical staff. Treatment of referred cases may continue in the new OTP until discharge criteria are met. ▪ Return after default: Children who return after defaulting (absent more than 3 weeks or absent more than 2 visits if OTP is every two weeks). Returning defaulters are readmitted if they still fulfil the admission criteria. Table 2: Enrolment criteria for OTP Category Criteria (any of the following): Children 6-59 months MUAC <115mm Bilateral pitting oedema grade + or ++ Mother/caretaker refuses inpatient care despite advice* Other reasons for OTP enrolment Transfer from inpatient care or other OTP site Child returns to OTP after transfer to in-patient care after treatment or is referred to OTP after inpatient care or from another