before it deteriorates to SAM. The coloured strip measures MUAC in infants and children. Outreach workers (e.g., community health workers [CHWs], volunteers), mothers and other family members (e.g., aunts, grandmothers, and fathers) can easily identify children with acute malnutrition using MUAC tape and can be trained to recognise bilateral pitting oedema. This makes it easy to identify children with acute malnutrition in the community. POWERPOINT: KEY PRINCIPLE 3. APPROPRIATE MEDICAL AND NUTRITION CARE (Show slides 25–26.) Slide 26: An assessment of the medical condition following the integrated management of childhood illness (IMCI) approach as well as an appetite test will determine whether the infant or child can be treated as an outpatient with regular visits to the health facility or must be referred to inpatient care. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 19 POWERPOINT: KEY PRINCIPLE 4. CARE FOR AS LONG AS IT IS NEEDED (Show slides 27–28.) DISCUSSION: Ask participants if they have further thoughts on the advantages or disadvantages of CMAM. Then ask how each component contributes to achieving the principles. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 20 Module 1 Learning Objective 3: Describe Innovations and Evidence Making CMAM Possible TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 1.5 Classification of Acute Malnutrition for CMAM and Handout 1.6 Screening, Admission, and Discharge Using MUAC. ELICITATION: Ask participants if any can name innovations that have made CMAM possible. Direct conversation to the following three innovations: 1. Availability of RUTF 2. Classification of acute malnutrition for CMAM 3. Screening, admission, and discharge using MUAC POWERPOINT: AVAILABILITY OF RUTF (Show slides 29–33.) Slide 30: Explain that RUTF is an oil-based paste with very low water content. It does not grow bacteria even when accidentally contaminated. It is safe to use in most environments. It is energy-dense but the quantity of proteins, fat, vitamins, and minerals per 100 kilocalories (kcal) is equivalent to that of F100, recommended by WHO for the inpatient treatment of SAM. RUTF can be eaten straight from the packet or pot and can be consumed easily by children from the age of 6 months. No water is added. Slide 31: RUTF has several advantages. It can be kept in simple packaging for several months without refrigeration. RUTF can be kept for several days even when opened. Also, RUTF contains iron, vitamin A, and several other micronutrients needed for the SAM child