SAM and infant and child feeding (IYCF) programming. The majority of protocols include provision for IYCF counselling for children in SAM treatment. However, using the management of SAM consultation to deliver IYCF counselling focuses on a very small group Guidance point: Examples of successful programme links • Using growth monitoring and promotion sessions to measure MUAC on all children with faltering growth, followed by referral for treatment if needed (e.g., Mozambique) • Screening children for acute malnutrition in ECD centres (e.g., Nepal) and incorporating ECD activities into emergency nutrition programmes • Using IMCI and community-IMCI services as the main entry point for management of SAM (see modified IMCI tool, annex E). Adding identification, referral and possibly management of SAM into community case management of pneumonia, malaria and diarrhoea • Identifying SAM cases as part of Child Health Weeks and immunization activities and outreach • Holding SAM management consultations in mother and child health clinics, obstetric care centres and antenatal clinics • Linking SAM consultation with caregivers and infant and young child feeding (IYCF) counselling and/or referral for additional IYCF support. This has been carried out in Sierra Leone, Zimbabwe and Ethiopia using the CMAM/IYCF training package and documenting positive experiences in the CMAM programme. Mother-to-mother IYCF support groups have also been used to conduct follow-ups on children with SAM (e.g., Ghana, Malawi, Pakistan) • Linking HIV/tuberculosis programming with management of SAM. There is well-documented evidence of effective treatment of SAM in children suffering from HIV and of increased uptake of voluntary HIV counselling and testing when offered during SAM consultations. Note: For the CMAM/IYCF training package, see ENN, IFE Core Group & Collaborators, ‘Integration of IYCF support into CMAM’, 2009, www.ennonline.net/integrationiycfintocmam. For SAM treatment of children with HIV, see M. Ndekha et al., “Home-based therapy with ready to use therapeutic food is of benefit to malnourished, HIV-infected Malawian children,” Acta Paediatrica vol. 94 (2): 222-225, (onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1651-2227.2005.tb01895.x/abstract) and K. Sadler et al., “Improving the management of severe acute malnutrition in an area of high HIV prevalence,” Journal of Tropical Pediatrics, 2008, 54 (6): 364-369, (tropej.oxfordjournals.org/ content/54/6/364.abstract). For increased uptake of HIV counselling and testing see P. Bahwere et al., “Uptake of HIV testing and outcomes within a community based therapeutic care (CTC) programme to treat severe acute malnutrition in Malawi: a descriptive study,” BMC Infectious Diseases, 2008, 8 (106): 1-13, www.biomedcentral.com/content/pdf/1471-2334-8-106.pdf. BOX 8 PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 19 malnutrition.