Dehydration ▪ Respiration/chest drawing in ▪ Cough ▪ Liver size ▪ Extremities ▪ Palmer pallor xxxi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Use of F100 ▪ F100 (100kcal/100ml)) can be used in the transition phase if the child does not yet have appetite for RUTF or where RUTF is not available. ▪ F100 should be given to children > 6 months of age about 6 times a day according to body weight (200ml/kg/day). Amount to give (volume according to weight) is shown in Annex 20. ▪ F100 should not be used at home. ▪ Use pre-packaged commercially available F100. Where this is not available, F100 may be prepared locally. Use the recipe given in Annex 22. CAUTION F100 should be given full strength EXCEPT for infants under 6 months. These infants should receive F100 diluted (F100D) Children and infants with oedema should be given F75 until the oedema has resolved. When the child’s condition is failing to improve (failure to respond) The following criteria suggest failure to respond: If a child is failing to respond then the underlying causes muse be investigated and addressed appropriately and recorded on the inpatient card. The underlying cause may be associated with the treatment facility or a specific problem with the individual child. Common causes of failure to respond are shown in Box 4. If a child is failing to respond then the underlying causes must be investigated and addressed appropriately and recorded on the inpatient card. Primary failure to respond: ▪ Failure to regain appetite by day 4 after admission ▪ Failure to start to lose oedema by day 4 after admission ▪ Oedema still present at day 10 after admission ▪ Failure to gain more than5g/kg/d by day 10 Preparation of commercially prepared F100 ▪ Add one packet (456g) of F100 to 2 litres of boiled water. ▪ Where a few children are being treated, use the red scoop in the packet (20ml of water per one red scoop). xxxii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women The underlying causes may be associated with the treatment facility or a specific problem with the individual child. Common causes of failure to respond are shown in Box 4. Common causes of failure to respond to treatment in inpatient care Problems with treatment facility