on this map do not imply official endorsement or acceptance by the United Nations. Dotted line represents approximately the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir agreed upon by India and Pakistan. The final status of Jammu and Kashmir has notyet been agreed upon by the parties. Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 18 Prevalence of Food Insecurity Using CARI The food security prevalence rate is analysed by applying the Consolidated Approach on Reporting Indicators on Food Security (CARI)26, which composites two important dimensions of household food security, namely food consumption and coping capacity. The former is an indicator of current food security, and the latter is a combined result of the food expenditure share (an indicator of economic vulnerability) and livelihood coping. According to findings of the survey, the prevlanace of overall food insecurity is 35 percent in the entire Merged Areas, out of which 4.2 percent households are severely food insecure while 31 percent households are moderately food insecure. Among the Tribal Sub-Divisions, the prevalence of severe and moderate food insecurity is significantly higher in D.I.Khan, where around 54 percent households are found to be severely food insecure while about 13 percent are moderately food insecure, followed by TSD Lakki where 46 percent households are moderately food insecure and about 14 percent households are severely food insecure. Among the merged Districts, Orakzai with overall food insecurity rate of 62 percent, was found to be the most food insecure district, followed by Mohmand where 33 percent or either severely or moderately food insecure. 26 The CARI culminates in a food security console which supports the reporting and combining of food security indicators in a systematic and transparent way. The food security console is the final output of the CARI. It combines a suite of food security indicators into a summary indicator –called the Food Security Index (FSI) which represents the population’s overall food security status. Central to the approach is an explicit classification of households into four descriptive groups based on the composite Food Security Index: food secure, marginally food secure, moderately food insecure, and severely food insecure. 27 Ranking is based on the prevalence of Moderate + severe food insecurity. Table 12: Prevalence of food insecurity using CARI (% Households) Rank27 Districts Food Secure Marginally Food Secure Moderately Food Insecure Severely Food Insecure Moderat e + Severe Overall 4.9% 59.9% 31.0%