University 2009) 1. The time between a CO placing an order and the order reaching the national port by surface transport varied from 40-120 days (on average 80 days, which is too long a delay during rapid-onset emergencies. Additional time must be allowed to clear customs and deliver RUTF to the office). 2. Shifting to air transport (the practice in emergencies) increased transportation costs from $0.17 to $2.40 per box of RUTF (representing a 100 per cent increase in the landed cost), which is not an acceptable solution. 3. Performance of the supply chain is hampered by: • Availability of funding (donor commitment is needed before a purchase order can be released) • Inaccurate assessment of need and demand for RUTF • Insufficient communication throughout the chain regarding order, in-transit and warehouse levels of RUTF. BOX 35 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 64 foods) for the prevention and treatment of undernutrition. While the guideline does not cover RUTF, the general principles related to procurement, logistics, distribution and maintaining food quality are applicable (see annex E). Integration and health systems frameworks and tools A number of regional and global initiatives are underway to provide frameworks and tools to facilitate integrated planning and implementation of management of SAM and of health and nutrition programming in general (see page 8). These initiatives aim to help programmes identify bottlenecks and track progress towards integration. UNICEF integration framework The 2010 global CMAM mapping exercise (UNICEF/Valid 2011126) identified a need for a more systematic approach to integrated management of SAM scale-up. In response, since January 2011, UNICEF has been developing and piloting a framework for institutional integration of management of SAM into national health systems. The objectives of the ‘Framework for integration of management of SAM into national health systems’ are to support countries in assessing coverage gaps, planning priority actions and guiding sustainable scale-up through the primary health care system. The framework is structured around the six WHO health system building blocks (governance, financing, human resources, supply, service delivery and health information systems). The framework is also split into national, district and community levels of programming to facilitate planning at each level and guide the development of yearly or multi-year action plans. The tool is geared for use as part of a participatory exercise involving a group of assessors 126 UNICEF and Valid International, ‘Global Mapping Review Of Community-Based Management Of Acute Malnutrition With a focus