www.sphereproject.org/handbook/ BOX 14 on appropriate targets and the time frames required to meet them in non-emergency programmes. Sharing coverage experiences on the forums outlined in annex G is therefore important. Capture and analyse programme outcome data and provide feedback Capturing reliable programme information is a critical but often overlooked part of managing an effective programme. It is no small task to UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 26 coverage, annual caseloads, reporting completeness and performance indicators. Treatment outcomes A suggested minimum reporting format for collecting programme outcomes at facility level was circulated in the 2008 programme guidance and is included in annex E. This minimum reporting format can form the basis for development or modification of national formats for reporting on treatment of SAM and providing information on performance needed to guide implementation of the service, but it is not meant to be applied without adaptation to the country context, in particular if there is an existing nutrition information system in place. The minimum reporting format single form is to be used by both outpatient and inpatient facilities and includes a simplified set of admission and exit categories. Streamlined reporting, like that in this model, can help facilitate accuracy and completeness. Community referrals The number of children being identified and referred for treatment by area (village or collection of villages covered by community agents) should also be collected. This information may be incorporated into facility reports, compiled by community health workers as part of their reports of their actions and the actions of other community agents. Rapid SMS is also showing some potential (Ethiopia, Uganda, Nigeria) for timely collection and compilation of these data, enabling it to be reported simultaneously to subnational and national levels (see box 22, page 36). Additional data At the national level, the following additional information needs to be collated, analysed and used to inform plans/actions: • Completeness of reporting: Proportion of districts and health facilities submitting reports within the reporting period. • Supply chain functioning (see page 35): Reports of stock-outs. capture quality information, but its potential value for improving the programme and providing a basis for advocacy and resource mobilization is significant. The simple online format produced by the Global SAM Management update (http://sammanagementdata.org)28 (see box 34) articulates a limited set of key SAM indicators and information (adhering to common definitions) to be collected as standard across countries.29 This set of indicators can help provide a