Institute of Management Studies, University of Peshawar Member Page | vii Acknowledgements The Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa extends its gratitude to the United Nations World Food Programme (UNWFP) Pakistan for initiating the Comprehensive Food Security & Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA) process in the Newly Merged Districts and Tribal Sub-Divisions of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and for extending technical and financial assistance. The CFSLA is the result of ceaseless efforts of individuals and organizations. This publication is the outcome of relentless efforts and collaboration between the Planning & Development Department through its Bureau of Statistics (BoS) Merged Areas, Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the United Nations World Food Programme (UNWFP) Pakistan. The Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa is indebted to all those involved in the CFSLA process and expresses a deep sense of appreciation to all Members of the Coordination Committee led by the Additional Secretary P&D (Mr Shah Mahmood Khan) for their valuable contribution during the various phases of the CFLSA. We gratefully acknowledge Ms. Rabia Awan, Director Sample Design Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (PBS) for supporting the sampling design of the CFSLA. Special recognition goes to the Bureau of Statistics, Merged Areas, in particular to Mr. Sami Ullah Khan for their efficient coordination and supervision of the entire CFSLA process on behalf of the Government. of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. This CFSLA would not have been possible without the great support provided by the Vulnerability Analysis and Mapping Unit of UNWP especially Mr. Shah Nasir Khan, former Head of WFP VAM Unit and currently UN Resident Coordinator Office Islamabad, who was a source of inspiration and encouragement throughout the critical phases of the CFLSA. Special appreciation goes to Mr. Khadim Shah, Programme Policy Officer for leading the entire CFSLA process on behalf of the WFP and making the CFSLA a reality. We gratefully acknowledge the Vice Chancellor University of Peshawar and his team from the Institute of Management Studies (IMS), led by Dr. Zia Obaid. Both deserve a special thanks for facilitating the work of BOS Merged Areas in the data collection process for the CFSLA. The assessment team also gratefully acknowledges the technical and financial support from WFP and the guidance from Mr. Finbarr Curran, Representative and Country Director WFP Pakistan, Ms. Arnhild Spence Deputy Country Director WFP Pakistan and Mr. Alghassim Wurie, Head WFP Provincial Office Peshawar. The Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa dedicates this Comprehensive Food Security & Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA) to the