(MBB) tool and UNICEF advocacy toolkit104. PROFILES is a participatory advocacy process/tool that uses a spreadsheet-based computer software programme to quantify the impacts and costs of diverse nutritional problems on development 102 PROFILES A Data Based Approach to Nutrition Advocacy and National Development http://www.globalhealthcommunication. org/tools/18 103 Marginal budgeting for bottlenecks http://www.devinfolive.info/ mbb/mbbsupport/knowledge.php?category_id=38 104 UNICEF, 2010a, Advocacy Toolkit; http://www.unicef.org/cbsc/ files/Advocacy_Toolkit-2.pdf Definitions: Prevalence of SAM Prevalence: The proportion of children 6-59 months with SAM in a population at a point in time Incidence: The occurrence of new cases of children 6-59 months with SAM in a population over a specific time period (usually a year) Burden/need: The number of children 6-59 months with SAM present in a population at a certain point or over a period of time, based on prevalence and incidence Target: The number of children 6-59 months with SAM that a programme expects to treat based on potential caseload and a coverage objective (geographical and treatment). BOX 32 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 58 has become one of the most critical indicators of programme success. With introduction of the community-based approach it quickly became clear that direct assessment of coverage was needed and that existing survey methods could not offer relevant or accurate results. To fill this need, the Centric Systematic Area Sampling (CSAS) survey method was developed (Myatt et al. 2005106). CSAS provides the ability to estimate and map coverage with precision within a given area, usually a district, and provides information about barriers to programme access. This method, though very useful for well-funded emergency programmes and evaluations, was found prohibitively expensive in the longer term and for routine monitoring purposes. As community-based programmes have become more integrated into health systems and scaleup accelerated, additional demands on coverage methods have been developed. These methods needed to meet some criteria: • Be cheaper and more easily integrated into existing systems • Allow routine periodic monitoring by health teams • Give broader estimations of treatment coverage (e.g., regional and national) Further innovations have been made to address these needs (Guevarra et al, 2014)107. The CSAS method has been replaced by the Simplified Lot Quality Assurance Sampling Evaluation of Access and Coverage (SLEAC) (a lower cost classification-based development of CSAS) and the Semi-Quantitative Evaluation of Access 106 Myatt, M., et al., 2005, “A field trial of a survey method for estimating the coverage of selective feeding programs,” http:// www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/83/1/20.pdf. 107 Guevarra, E.,