of incidence may be obtained with the calculation below, but with two important caveats: • The mean duration of a SAM episode is not easy to estimate and may vary from setting to setting. Available estimates vary widely. • The method relies on an assumption of constant incidence. This assumption is unlikely to be true for a condition such as SAM which is strongly associated with infection and food availability which are usually seasonal. Incidence = Prevalence/ average duration of disease A common estimate of the average duration of an untreated SAM episode is 7.5 months (Garenne et al. 2009142). Using this to estimate incident cases over one year (i.e. 12 months) yields: Incident cases = Prevalence × 12/7.5 = Prevalence × 1.6 1.6 is therefore used as the incidence correction factor to generate the annual burden (existing plus new incident cases) estimate based on prevalence. In the case where incidence correction factor is specifically known based on country level analysis, that figure can be used in place of 1.6 in the 140 Garenne, M., et al., 2009, ‘Incidence and duration of severe wasting in two African populations’, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ pubmed/19254427. 141 Isanaka, S., et al., 2011, “Estimates of the Duration of Untreated Acute Malnutrition in Children From Niger,” http://aje. oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2011/03/03/aje.kwq436.full. 142 Garenne, M., et al., 2009, ‘Incidence and duration of severe wasting in two African populations’, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ pubmed/19254427. ANNEX A 71 calculation of annual SAM burden. In settings with effective programs, the correction factor should be higher. Estimating the burden of SAM (Need)143 The annual estimated SAM burden is defined as the number of children 6-59 months with SAM present in a population over a period of time, based on current (prevalent) and new (incident) cases. Calculation of both a national burden figure and a figure for the specific geographic area where SAM management programmes are operating is recommended in order to better understand the needs. National burden: The most accurate method (to date) that we can propose (still with many caveats) relies on having good quality regional/provincial breakdowns of SAM prevalence using the same methodology for all the regions/provinces in that country (i.e. Method 1A below). Most countries will not meet this criteria, however there are alternatives for calculating the national burden (i.e. Method 2A and Method 3A). The further the calculation is from the preferred method, the more inaccurate the calculations are likely to be. Choosing between Methods