insecurity can be acute/transitory and or chronic in nature. Transitory food insecurity is of a temporary nature, typically caused by being exposed to a shock, such as a natural disaster, a conflict, the illness of household member, that prevents people from being able to consume adequate amounts of food. Chronic food insecurity, on the other hand, is the persistent inability of a household to meet their dietary needs over a long period. Its main underlying causes are poverty and exclusion, usually exacerbated by the lack of social safety nets and other mechanism for economic and social inclusion. If unaddressed, transitory food insecurity can lead to chronic food insecurity Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 15 Indicators Used in Measuring Food Insecurity in the Merged Areas This report relies on indicators compiled following globally accepted definitions and standards to measure the food security situation of the households in the Merged Areas. Prevalence of Moderate or Severe Food Insecurity in the Population Based on Food Insecurity Experience Scale (FIES) (SDG indicator 2.1.2) The FIES is an experience-based food security measurement scale composed of eight questions asking to report on the occurrence of experiences and conditions that are typically associated with food insecurity. The conditions vary in terms of severity, ranging from those that are expected to be typical of less severe conditions (such as if any household member were worried to run out of food), to those typical of most severe situations (such as if any member of the household went without eating for a whole day). Respondents are asked to report if each of the conditions has been experienced, over the last 12 months, because of a lack of money or other resources to obtain food. The entire pattern of responses to the eight questions is used to test the internal validity of the FIES data and to estimate a measure of food insecurity for each respondent, based on the number of affirmative answers. The severity of food insecurity will be higher for households reporting a higher raw score. Results of the analysis of FIES data are reported in terms of the percentage of households or individuals who have experienced food insecurity at a given level of severity or higher, combining moderate and severe level of food insecurity, or focusing on severe levels only, depending on the context. For compiling cross-country comparable indicators, UN-FAO