ground realities. The Government is leading the initiatives on rebuilding homes, schools, health facilities, water supply schemes, agriculture and livelihoods activities. As the key findings of the assessments conducted during 2015 to 2017 revealed some positive progress in recovery of the households returned has been achieved, however, the conditions in the areas are still not sufficient to ensure sustainable return. The region is highly impoverished with significant challenges across almost every aspect of human development. Access to basic services (WASH, health, food security and nutrition, education etc.) needs to be improved. Development actions need to be designed and implemented across a range of social and economic issues to make the return of displaced populations viable and sustainable. It’s our resolve to not only bring a sense of normalcy in Newly Merged Areas but also the entire development process should be in line with the aspirations of local populations. The purpose-specific data gathered from the communities of the Merged Areas through the Comprehensive Food Security & Livelihood Assessment will best identify the rehabilitation and development priorities to cater for the low hanging quick impact projects. That is, to say implementing context specific solutions that can be planned based on technical assessments carried jointly by the Government and development partners. The Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and WFP-Pakistan jointly initiated this study in July-Aug 2019 with the technical support of Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (PBS) and the Institute of Management Studies (IMS), University of Peshawar. This assessment covers all seven Newly Merged Districts and six Tribal Sub-Divisions (previously known as Frontier Regions) of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. It provides an updated analysis on food security and livelihoods situation of the households. In addition, in order to understand the food availability and access situation, the assessment also included a Rapid Market Appraisal of all the local markets in the areas. The findings of this assessment as well as its recommendations will complement the government and partners’ efforts for further planning while ensuring an integrated development process. Furthermore, provides a comprehensive understanding of the degree of food insecurity at the household level in the Newly Merged Areas. The assessment also analyses the contributing factors 1 Complex Emergency Wing of the PDMA, previously known as FDMA 2 WFP-Govt. of KP In-depth Food Security and Livelihood Assessment of Returned Households in FATA 2017 Page | ix of food insecurity. Such analytical work will also help decision makers to understand