National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Absent bowel sounds, gastric dilation and intestinal splash with abdominal distention Treatment • Give first and second line antibiotic treatment by intra-muscular injection. • Consider adding third line antibiotics. • Stop all other drugs that may be causing toxicity (such as metronidazole). • Give a single IM injection of magnesium sulphate (2ml of 50% solution). • Pass an NG tube and aspirate the contents of the stomach, then ‘irrigate’ the stomach with isotonic clear fluid (5% dextrose or 10% sucrose – the solution does not need to be sterile). Do this by introducing 50 ml of solution into the stomach and then gently aspirating all the fluid back again. This should be repeated until the fluid that returns from the stomach is clear. • Put 5ml/kg of sugar-water (10% sucrose solution) into the stomach and leave it there for one hour. Then aspirate the stomach and measure the volume that is retrieved. If the volume is less than the amount that was introduced then either a further dose of sugarwater should be given or the fluid returned to the stomach • There is frequently gastric and oesophageal candidiasis: give oral nystatin suspension or fluconazole. • Keep the child warm. If the child’s level of consciousness is poor, give intravenous glucose. • Do not put a drip up at this stage. Monitor the child carefully for 6 hours, without giving any other treatment. • Improvement is measured first by a change in intestinal function – decrease in the distension of the abdomen, visible peristalsis seen through the abdominal wall, return of bowel sounds, decreasing size of gastric aspirates – and second by improvement in the general condition of the child If there is intestinal improvement then start to give small amounts of F75 by NG tube (half the recommended quantity) – subsequently adjust by the volumes of gastric aspirated. If there is no improvement after 6 hours then: • Consider putting up an IV drip. It is very important that the fluid given contains adequate amounts of potassium. Sterile Potassium Chloride (20 mmol/l) should be added to all solutions that do not contain potassium. If it is available use one-fifth normal saline in 5% dextrose, otherwise use Ringer-Lactate in 5% dextrose or half-strength saline in 5% dextrose. The drip should be run VERY SLOWLY