Uncomplicated SAM: A Programme Report from Myanmar.” Maternal & Child Nutrition. 11(4):859–69. doi: 10.1111/mcn.12192. Epub 2015 Apr 7. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4672709/pdf/mcn0011-0859.pdf. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 67 Module 4 Learning Objective 1: Describe Outpatient Care for the Management of SAM Without Medical Complications TRAINER: If necessary, review Module One PowerPoint presentation slides 48 through 53 on outpatient care for the management of SAM without medical complications. GROUP DISCUSSION: COMMUNITY-BASED MANAGEMENT OF ACUTE MALNUTRITION. Draw Figure 1 on the flip chart. Ask participants: 1. What is outpatient care? What does it entail? 2. Who receives outpatient care? 3. How does outpatient care for SAM without medical complications differ from inpatient care for SAM with medical complications? Discuss and fill in gaps. Figure 1. Core Components of CMAM Outpatient care for management of SAM WITHOUT medical complications Community Outreach Inpatient care for management of SAM WITH medical complications Management of MAM Other nutrition and health interventions, food security, social protection and WASH, to prevent undernutrition Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 68 Module 4 Learning Objective 2: Describe Admission Criteria in Outpatient Care (Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 months) TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 4.1 Admission Criteria and Entry Categories for CMAM, Handout 4.2 Outpatient Care: Admission Criteria for Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months, and Exercise 4.1 Outpatient Care Admission for At-Risk Mothers and Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months. BRAINSTORM: ADMISSION CRITERIA FOR OUTPATIENT CARE. Ask participants to name the characteristics of infants and children who should be admitted to outpatient care (i.e., infants under 6 months who are nutritionally vulnerable [i.e., moderate nutrition risk] with no medical complications and children 6–59 months who have SAM, have no medical complications, have an appetite). Write responses on the flip chart. If not named by the participants, explain that there are a few additional categories of children who should be admitted: • Infants under 6 months of age who are nutritionally vulnerable without medical complications (i.e., moderate nutritional risk) or bilateral pitting oedema can be admitted for management in the outpatient care. Management of breastfed infants under 6 months of age should prioritize establishing or re-establishing effective exclusive breastfeeding by the mother or other female caregiver. Infants under 6 months who are not breastfed will also need to be assessed and provided targeted feeding support.