WHO health systems framework covering qualitative information (general CMAM programme background and context; policy, financing and coordination; training and capacity development; drugs and therapeutic supplies) and quantitative information (caseloads; prevalence; access and coverage; performance indicators). The questionnaire was sent to 77 countries, selected due to previous orders for therapeutic supplies or recommended by the regional officers. The full findings can be accessed online at; https://intranet. unicef.org/pd/pdc.nsf/e59d3405e8ee2cb9852567460068fae4/a0d7b c73a4211ec985257a7e004c8312?OpenDocument; and http://www. ennonline.net/fex/41/global. from the technical annex of the MOU between WFP and UNICEF is found in table 3. In 2011, UNICEF revised its global memorandum of understanding with WFP to better outline areas of responsibility. UNICEF recently developed a Letter of Understanding with UNHCR alongside technical guidance and areas of cooperation75. UNICEF has a partnership with the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention for epidemiological support on operational research and collection and analysis of situational nutrition data. The Nutrition section at UNICEF headquarters has also worked with Valid International, Action Against Hunger/ACF International (ACF) and the Coverage Monitoring Network to improve the quality and frequency of SAM management data. UNICEF now has a functional Internet-based database to collate and 75 At of the time of writing, the WFP UNICEF MOU technical annex on Nutrition and the UNICEF UNHCR Letter of Understanding has not been posted online but is available on request. UNICEF and WFP memorandum of understanding (2011): Except from the technical annex for nutrition Programme area WFP commitments UNICEF commitments Joint principles and action Management of SAM UNICEF will coordinate and support treatment programmes that follow established and agreed upon UN protocols, such as CMAM To seek food for the recovery phase of therapeutic feeding and for family members of children suffering from SAM. In cases where UNICEF is unable to support therapeutic feeding, WFP may provide support after discussion with UNICEF at country level. If no arrangement can be made, agreements will be made at regional or headquarters level. To take the lead in supporting and coordinating the organization of therapeutic feeding programmes and interventions in communities and health facilities. To mobilize resources and ensure the availability of RUTF and other supplies and products required for the treatment of children suffering from SAM. To support the training of health staff on SAM. In case WFP is unable to provide SFP, UNICEF may do so after discussion with WFP at country level. If no arrangement can be made, agreements will