and reduce their workload (see page 37). Develop referral modalities between management components When children with SAM are identified at community level, referred to facilities and then moved between inpatient and outpatient care or other programmes such as targeted supplementary feeding programmes to treat MAM and provide support for discharged SAM cases, a key challenge is to avoid ‘losing’ children between inpatient and outpatient services or between the community and the service. This can happen, for example, when a child is referred by a community agent but never arrives at the facility. Addressing this issue requires attention to information systems and communication channels that can be mobilized to facilitate patient transfer. Such mechanisms should be investigated during community enquiry (see annex B) and can be enhanced through innovative methods. Consider support for the supply chain Continuous availability of supplies without stockout is a pre-requisite for successful scale-up of the management of SAM since recovery is undermined by interruptions to treatment. Information on the specific commodities, routine medications and equipment available through UNICEF are available in the online UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 18 of children (those with SAM) and on only one aspect of IYCF support (counselling). SAM management can be more strongly linked to a comprehensive IYCF programme that tackles the major barriers to good IYCF practice with the aims of community-level impact for the prevention or recurrence of SAM. The need for more robust models of linkages is illustrated by the experience documented in Zimbabwe17, where the lack of population impact from integrating IYCF into CMAM underlined the need for a more comprehensive IYCF strategy. 17 Dube, Wisdom G., Thokozile Ncube, and Paul Musarurwa, 2012, “Frontline experiences of Community Infant and Young Child Feeding in Zimbabwe,” Field Exchange 43, www.ennonline.net/ fex/43/frontline. or recovery, benefit the other sector and allow more efficient use of resources. Success may depend largely on how well those services are implemented; some links within health and between health and other sectors that have proved successful are in Box 8 and detailed further in this section. There is a close linkage between prevention and management of SAM and infant and child feeding (IYCF) programming. The majority of protocols include provision for IYCF counselling for children in SAM treatment. However, using the management of SAM consultation to deliver IYCF counselling focuses on a very small group Guidance point: Examples of successful programme links • Using growth monitoring