above 6 months at the 4th week of treatment. The Health care provider should encourage the vaccination of all other eligible unvaccinated children in the household. This will reduce the mortality risk of the unvaccinated child 1 Imported RUTF is made from peanut paste, milk powder, vegetable oil and sugar. A specifically designed micronutrient mix is added. The RUTF is made to the same formulation as F100 and is designed to meet the special needs of severely acutely malnourished children xviii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women ▪ Iron and folic acid is not given routinely in the OTP as RUTF contains sufficient iron and folic acid to treat mild to moderate anaemia. If anaemia is identified it may be treated according to IMNCI guidelines however treatment should begin only after 14 days in the programme with evidence of weight gain and good appetite(Annex 12). Additional supplements of iron and folate should not be given routinely. ▪ Cases of severe anaemia should be transferred to inpatient care. ▪ Malaria treatment is given in malarial areas according to the national malaria protocol (Annex 13). ▪ Additional medicines may be prescribed to treat other medical problems for children with severe acute malnutrition in OTP. (Annex 14). ▪ Children who have been transferred from inpatient care should not receive routine medications that have already been administered in inpatient care. Check the OTP card and transfer or referral slip from the inpatient care unit for details of the medications that have already been given. ▪ All children should be referred for other routine childhood vaccinations. Check the child’s vaccination card. OTP FOLLOW UP VISITS Children should attend the OTP every week or two weeks to have a medical check-up and to receive their supply of RUTF. The health care provider at the health facility should record the information on the OTP card during each follow up visit. Procedure for follow up (weekly or every two week visits until discharge) ▪ Clean water for hand washing and for drinking should be available at the OTP. ▪ MUAC, weight and assessment for oedema are taken every week. ▪ If there is an issue with attendance due to distance or other reasons, it might be necessary to ask the caretaker to come to OTP every two weeks (if this is the case, amount of RUTF given