same in MoRES, but the ‘enabling environment’ category was added as determinants of financial access, and socio-cultural beliefs and practices were added under ‘demand’. should be identified, as well as bottlenecks and barriers that constrain the fulfilment of the determinants. The removal of bottlenecks and barriers are then monitored frequently (usually every six months or annually) to assess progress in fulfilling the respective determinants. To support this ongoing monitoring, UNICEF is currently exploring how best to include key determinants of coverage indicators into SAM/ CMAM monitoring systems and database. The determinants of coverage used in DHSS have been adapted from the standard MoRES determinants to better fit the realities of health systems, while they can still be easily used to inform the progress in achieving results towards equity. The conceptual framework for the determinant analysis is derived from the bottleneck analysis Key determinants in managing scale-up of SAM management TABLE 1 ENABLING ENVIRONMENT Determinant framework, MoRES Determinant framework, DHSS SUPPLY QUALITY DEMAND UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 10 Identify and carry out causal analyses of bottlenecks Using all the information and data collected, the same stakeholder group works together to identify the main causes of the identified bottlenecks. Identification of main causes can be done for all bottlenecks or just for major bottlenecks and/or those that need to be addressed first. As part of this exercise the importance of the different causes of any given bottleneck should be assessed in the country context so that remaining actions can be focused accordingly. Some of the information may also come from the review process outlined in step 4, which is particularly relevant when moving from limited to full scale implementation. The bottleneck analysis, undertaken in a consultative manner with stakeholders, will result in a common understanding of the causes of bottlenecks and identification of solutions, which in turn will provide the basis for developing realistic scale-up plans. The scale-up plans must also take account of the desired pace and targets of scale-up, which are additional parameters that need to be agreed among stakeholders. This process is covered in the next section. Step 4. Develop scale-up plan Establish a participatory planning process The planning process should be participatory, through meetings involving the same stakeholders involved in the bottleneck analysis. The planning process should take place under the direction of the appropriate technical working group, such as one overseeing nutrition coordination or management of SAM.