case Study. https://intranet.unicef. org/epp/evalsite.nsf/8e1ddc662803020785256ede00706595/ f51e43862c8cb5a385257a52004e463d?OpenDocument SAM MANAGEMENT: INFORMATION FOR PROGRAMMING 57 outcomes such as mortality, morbidity, fertility, school performance and labour productivity. It helps stakeholders in health, agriculture, education and finance to share a common understanding of nutritional problems and costeffective solutions. Management of SAM can be included in the spreadsheets by adding: • Estimates of national prevalence of SAM (from surveys) • Costs for product and programming estimated using the FANTA costing tool (annex E) • Relative risks for severe wasting (Black et al. 2008105), though this may not be appropriate in countries with a high proportion of kwashiorkor. The MBB tool, developed by UNICEF and the World Bank, takes a different approach. It starts with current implementation of approaches within the national health system and constraints to 105 Black, R. et al., 2008, “Maternal and Child Undernutrition: global and regional exposures and health consequences,” The Lancet, http://www.who.int/nutrition/topics/Lancetseries_Undernutrition1. pdf. An adapted calculation (see annex A) can also help to estimate programme targets for planning purposes, with the same caveats as those mentioned above. Such a method is best used at the initiation of a SAM management programme, and the estimates should be revised based on admission patterns after the initial implementation phase, for example, after six months. For this adapted calculation, geographical and treatment coverage factors need to be factored into the estimated potential caseload based on realistic expansion plans. Treatment coverage of the service is never 100 per cent, so overestimates will occur unless more realistic targets are calculated. An alternative method, preferable where management of SAM programmes are already established and collating admission data, is to extrapolate targets based on the previous year’s admissions. This must take into account factors such as seasonality, geographical expansion plans, predicted increases in treatment coverage based on programme activities and adjustments, and completeness of reporting (also described in annex A). Advocacy tools Emerging data on cost effectiveness allows comparison of management of SAM with other interventions for the purposes of advocacy. This comparison can also be done through inclusion of the intervention in PROFILES102 and in the Marginal budgeting for bottlenecks103 (MBB) tool and UNICEF advocacy toolkit104. PROFILES is a participatory advocacy process/tool that uses a spreadsheet-based computer software programme to quantify the impacts and costs of diverse nutritional problems on development 102 PROFILES A Data Based Approach to Nutrition Advocacy and National Development http://www.globalhealthcommunication. org/tools/18 103 Marginal budgeting for bottlenecks