(BHU), regional health facility (RHC) and at hospital level. OTP may also be run in tents or in the open in acute emergencies or disaster situations. OTP should be linked to health facilities wherever possible. ▪ WHEN: Where the treatment of SAM is integrated into local primary health services or the caseload is low, the OTP beneficiaries may be seen as part of the normal clinical caseload in the health facility. Children can be admitted at any time. The follow up visits continue on a weekly basis until the child is ready for discharge. OTP follow up sessions may operate on a designated day every week OTP can also be held every two weeks in situations WHEN ▪ Poor access or long distances to the health facility makes it difficult for caretakers. ▪ The caseload of children is very large and weekly OTP sessions would overburden health caretakers. xiii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Note: If the child has poor appetite or a clinical condition requiring close monitoring, the child should come weekly until they are stable (clinically well and have good appetite for RUTF). What you will need to run an OTP session Basic equipment and supplies for OTP Basic equipment Basic supplies ▪ Weighing scales ▪ MUAC tapes ▪ Thermometer ▪ Time watch ▪ Scissors ▪ Clean water for drinking (jug and cups) ▪ Water and soap for hand-washing ▪ OTP cards ▪ Ration card for the mother/caretaker ▪ Transfer slipsfrom OTP to inpatient care ▪ Referral slip-from OTP to supplementary feeding where it exists ▪ List of inpatient treatment sites ▪ List of other OTP / SFP sites in the area (if SFP is available) ▪ Essential medicines as required in the routine medical protocol for OTP ▪ RUTF Protocols and reference sheets Protocols and reference sheets can be found in a separate pack at the back of these guidelines. These can be copied and printed in large quantities. Protocols marked with an asterisk * should be laminated for easy reference at the health facility. Annex 1: Anthropometric measurement techniques Annex 4: Target weight gain for discharge Annex 5: OTP card (Enrolment details: Outpatient therapeutic programme) Annex 6: Action protocol (OTP)* Annex 7: OTP transfer and referral slips Annex 8: Key messages for OTP* Annex 9: Routine medical protocol for OTP* Annex 10: RUTF ration