(public and private)? • How are they staffed and managed? • What structures, equipment and supplies do they have? • What systems are in place for free health care? • How the different services are managed (i.e., division of roles, days, facilities)? Human resources Competencies for CMAM • Who is currently responsible for management of SAM at each level and what potential is there for adding to existing workloads? • How are health facilities staffed and vacancies filled and what is staff turnover like? • What skills are available for the management of SAM at all levels (treatment, programme management, information management, supplies and logistics, coordination)? • Are there nutritionists in place, at what levels, and who supervises them? • Are there community-level health staff in place, are they paid, what are their roles? Training and mentoring • How is training for management of SAM conducted currently? • Are institutions involved in nutrition training? • What institutions train health staff? • What trainers are available and what is their level of experience? • Where would pre-service training for management of SAM need to occur? • Are any structures in place to support in-service training? Service Quality Guidance • What national or subnational guidance and protocols are in place for management of SAM? • What are the gaps? Reporting • How is data on SAM management captured? • What information is captured, where does it go to, in what time frame and how is it used? • Who is involved? • Are there feedback systems? • Is there any link with the Health Management Information System and those managing it? • What capacity is there at each level for data analysis? Supervision and monitoring • What are the structures and systems for supervision, monitoring? • Who is responsible for supervision and monitoring of management of SAM? • How often are they able to conduct supervision and monitoring visits? • What tools do they have? Information and research • Are there any fora for information exchange on experiences and research related to CMAM? • What operational research (if any) is being done? • What national institutions are involved? • Are there any potential examples in the country of innovative technologies being used for information management? UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 80 Skipping this step often results in insufficient or misguided attention to the community component of CMAM. Neglect of the community enquiry has