is to calculate the progress of the programme against the targets set, as per the following: Programme implementation progress = admissions/ target caseload Confidence intervals on coverage may be calculated using the 95 per cent confidence limits of the SAM prevalence estimate to calculate 95 per cent confidence limits on the estimate of burden. The methods outlined above have problems with both accuracy and precision. This does not mean that they should never be used. Bias can be minimized. For example, bias in geographical coverage estimates can be countered by robust definition of numerators and denominators and by correction for e.g., RUTF stock-outs, clinic closures and spatial coverage. A biased indicator may be of most use in tracking roll-out over time. If bias is reasonably small and consistent over time, then an indicator’s estimated value will track the indicator’s true value. Bias can also be corrected for if it is possible to estimate the direction and magnitude of the bias. This could be done by comparison of indirect estimates with direct estimates of coverage made using direct (e.g., CSAS, SQUEAC, SLEAC) methods. Such calibration exercises may also be useful for programming planning purposes as they could be used to calibrate the prevalence to incidence correction factor (k) which is also used to decide programme resource requirements. How to use and communicate coverage and performance data In order to fully capture and communicate the scale of SAM programming to a range of audiences, it is important to have a common understanding of how best to use these different figures. Each figure helps show how the programme has performed against the need. Where possible, it is best to present all of the figures. i. The national treatment coverage estimate presents the nationwide progress in relation to national burden, which ensures that the overall SAM burden and need within the country is not forgotten or overlooked. This can be important for advocacy purposes to promote further scale up of programming efforts. ii. The targeted area treatment coverage figure demonstrates the progress achieved within the areas that SAM management programmes are operating, and the remaining gap in these areas. This can be important for showing success where we/partners work, but also point to the need for further scale-up. iii. Geographical coverage (national and target area) represents a crucial starting point for developing and monitoring SAM management scale-up strategies, identifying where there is an unmet