management has been seriously underemphasized by both donors and developing countries. The result has been formation of a global partnership for collective urgent action for nutrition among 102 key stakeholders.65 The SUN movement is based on a shared belief that countries could best improve their people’s nutrition security if they developed and implemented their own plans. An agreed framework of action for nutrition was developed focusing on multisectoral action; results at country level; scale-up of key evidence-based and cost-effective interventions to prevent and treat undernutrition; and substantially increased assistance to country nutrition programmes and capacities. As of November 2014, high-level officials from 54 countries have publicly pledged their commitment to reduce undernutrition by placing nutrition at the centre of development policies.66 This political commitment has been reinforced by setting bold goals and specific targets and by developing or revising national plans for scaled up nutrition that combine nutrition-sensitive development with specific nutrition interventions. Management of SAM within national structures, systems and programmes Supporting ministries of health to incorporate management of SAM into routine child health activities and to incorporate supervision and monitoring of SAM management into national structures and health systems is a key challenge for UNICEF and others trying to build capacity for treatment of SAM (see box 29 for definitions). A number of country and regional evaluations and workshops have documented the progress and lessons of integration and scale-up of 65 These include United Nations, multilateral and bilateral agencies along with foundations, developing country governments, civil society organizations, researchers and the private sector. 66 See www.scalingupnutrition.org. The Renewed Efforts against Child Hunger and Undernutrition (REACH) initiative is a country-led approach to scaled up effective interventions through coordinated action of United Nations agencies, civil society, donors and the private sector, under the leadership of national governments (UNICEF is a major supporter). It focuses on countries with a high burden of child and maternal undernutrition to accelerate the scaleup of food and nutrition actions. The initiative aims to link child nutrition, food security, health and care in a sustainable strategic approach. It provides facilitators who help to build the capacity of government counterparts and put in place structures to improve nutrition governance and management. Renewed Efforts against Child Hunger and Undernutrition has the potential to influence the enabling environment for management of SAM. Increasing treatment of SAM is one of the ‘big-five’ interventions that it endorses.62 In the paper ‘Scaling-Up