Care, Section A and Handout 5.5 Discharge Criteria and Exit Categories for CMAM. Answer any questions then briefly review the discharge criteria in both the text and the table on the same handout. PRACTICE AND GROUP DISCUSSION: DETERMINE APPROPRIATENESS OF INPATIENT CARE. Refer participants to the tables in both Handout 5.3 and Handout 5.5. Tell them you will give examples of children either presenting at or already in inpatient care and ask them to determine if the child should be admitted, remain in inpatient care or be discharged to outpatient care. Ask them to explain why. Examples: 1. Infant is under 6 months and is brought to inpatient care with bilateral pitting oedema grade +. (Answer: admit to inpatient care because of bilateral pitting oedema.) 2. Child was admitted to inpatient care with a mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC) < 115mm and no appetite but no other medical complications. Child now passes the appetite test and is clinically well and alert. (Answer: discharge to outpatient care because appetite has returned and all other criteria met). 3. Child is brought to inpatient care with bilateral pitting oedema grade ++ and MUAC <115mm. (Answer: admit to inpatient care with for treatment of marasmic kwashiorkor.) 4. Infant is under 6 months and was brought to inpatient care unable to breastfeed and with prolonged weight loss. Infant is now effectively gaining weight on exclusive breastfeeding, and the mother is confident with the infant’s breastfeeding status. (Answer: discharge to outpatient care to continue with follow-up and breastfeeding support.) Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 97 Child was brought to inpatient care with marasmic kwashiorkor. Bilateral pitting oedema has been reduced from grade +++ to grade +. (Answer: keep child in inpatient care until bilateral pitting oedema resolved.) Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 98 Module 5 Learning Objective 3: Review Medical and Dietary Treatment in Inpatient Care TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 5.6 Medical and Dietary Treatment of SAM With Medical Complications. REVIEW: MEDICAL COMPLICATIONS REQUIRING INPATIENT CARE. Ask participants to name the medical complications that, coupled with SAM, would require inpatient care: • Anorexia or no appetite, infant under 6 months unable to feed • Intractable vomiting • Convulsions • Lethargy, not alert • Unconsciousness • Lower respiratory tract infection • High fever • Dehydration • Persistent diarrhoea • Severe anaemia • Hypoglycaemia • Hypothermia