Module 6 Learning Objective 4: Practice Making Referrals from Supplementary Feeding to Outpatient or Inpatient Care TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 6.12 Referral Slip and Exercise 6.1 Referrals in CMAM. REVIEW: USING REFERRAL SLIPS. Refer participants to Handout 6.12 Referral Slip, noting that this is the same referral slip they have encountered in the modules addressing outpatient and inpatient care. Ask if there are any questions. PRACTICE: MAKING REFERRALS FROM SUPPLEMENTARY FEEDING. Ask participants to form pairs. Direct them to Exercise 6.1 Referrals in CMAM and distribute copies of referral slips. Ask participants to read the examples, and explain that three children present to an SFP. The participants are to decide what action is required and complete a referral slip where appropriate. Ask one pair to report on Child A and then ask other pairs to add additional information. Repeat for Child B and Child C. Using the answer sheet below, coach participants to fill in gaps. Exercise 6.1 Referrals in CMAM (answer sheet) Child A Question: Child A, a girl age 18 months, was admitted to the SFP with a MUAC of 117 mm, weight of 10 kg and no medical complications. At the second visit, the child had developed bilateral pitting oedema on the feet (bilateral oedema +). What action is needed? Answer: Child A should be referred to outpatient care. It is important to explain to the mother/caregiver why the child is being sent to outpatient care and what s/he can expect. The mother/caregiver should understand that once the child has recovered in outpatient care, the child will return to the SFP. Child B Question: Child B, a boy age 36 months, was referred to the SFP by the outreach worker with a MUAC of 118 mm. On admission, the nurse finds the child has no appetite and an extremely high fever. What action is needed? Answer: Child B should be referred to the hospital for medical treatment according to the action protocol and treated according to the World Health Organisation (WHO) and integrated management of childhood illness (IMCI) protocols, and national protocols. The child is given a referral slip. Transportation should be arranged where possible. Once the child recovers, the child will return to the SFP. It is important to explain to the mother/caregiver why the child is being sent to the hospital and what s/he can expect. Child C Question: Child C, a boy age