Myatt, M, 2012. Effective programs have high coverage Effectiveness Coverage High coverage programs have high cure rates UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 30 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 30 Good practices for addressing bottlenecks in scaling up 3 Enabling environment Political Commitment and policy Political commitment and leadership determine whether management of SAM is included in development and health priorities and policies and whether government staff time and funds are allocated to the programme. It is at this highprofile level that bottlenecks often arise. Common political/policy bottlenecks include: • Lack of government commitment to implementation outside the emergency context and/or at the community level • Incoherent messages and disagreement on nutrition priorities among different agencies/ organizations • Insufficient incorporation of management of SAM into sectoral and multisectoral advocacy tools • Insufficient incorporation of management of SAM in health and wider development policy, impeding implementation • Insufficient budgetary allocation to SAM or to nutrition While some some countries have relied on NGOs (e.g. DRC managed to scale up using NGOs at first), in general, countries where management of SAM is being implemented most broadly are those that have achieved the greatest degree of incorporation of the approach into policies, strategies and plans. Determining which components are most important is country specific and dependent on how much backing those policies have internally and externally. It is therefore necessary to be strategic in assessing political commitment and determining which policies to back. Where nutrition policies and strategies are in place, they may be the most obvious starting point for the strategic review. However, given that health staff will be largely responsible for implementing SAM treatment, it is essential for management of SAM to be properly reflected in health policies and plans, whether as part of mother and child health care services, IMCI, community case management or elsewhere (Gatchell et al. 2006). If SAM management is incorporated in health policies and plans, it is more likely that appropriate human resource structures, training, responsibilities and performance reviews will be in place and that scale-up will receive sufficient support and resources. GOOD PRACTICES FOR ADDRESSING BOTTLENEKCS IN SCALING UP 31 Good practice: Bringing management of SAM into the policy agenda • Key agency support: Have a key agency at the national level (with the agreement of other major agencies) that advocates for and supports the programme with expertise and resources. • Emergencies: Use emergencies to highlight the insufficient