of the supplier base, with more qualified manufacturers in countries and regions closer to end-users, and to focus on product quality and safety. This is viewed as an important step on the path to the eventual transfer of management of SAM with RUTF from UNICEF and NGOs to national authorities. • Therapeutic milk: With the introduction of CMAM, the volume of therapeutic milk needed to manage children with SAM fell dramatically.116 F-75 and F-100 were supplied traditionally in sachets that produced 2.4 litres of milk each, which led to wastage, because 116 UNICEF purchased 2,100 MT of F-100 in 2003 but only 380 MT in 2011. (WHO/UNICEF/WFP/SCN 2007114). To avoid confusion resulting from the diversity of commercial names and packaging, UNICEF, MSF and WFP have initiated harmonized packaging and colour coding of nutritional products. Soon, commercial names will be replaced with generic names in all packaging and communications. As yet the price of RUTFs has not fallen, despite growing competition.115 However, raw material prices have risen considerably in the past four years – the price of peanuts alone tripled between 2008 and 2012 – so it is 114 WHO, et al., 2007, ‘A Joint Statement, Community Based Management of Severe Acute Malnutrition,’ http://www.unicef. org/publications/files/Community_Based_Management_of_Sever_ Acute__Malnutirtion.pdf. 115 Weighted average RUTF price in 2011 was $51.51 per carton for off-shore purchased product, $57.56 per carton for locally produced product. The Global SAM Management Update Tool (Nutridash) This tool uses key nutrition indicators collected at country level which are entered into an online system that collates, analyses and interprets the information at headquarters and the regional office level. For SAM, it generates a profile of each country with: • Scale-up objectives/targets for management of SAM • Quality and impact data (report uptake, outcome indicators, geographical and treatment coverage) • Markers of integration into the health system Using these key indicators, no further data collection should be required at the country level. At the same time, the indicators will be less detailed than the full range of indicators required for country level monitoring. The outputs of the system can help: • Provide a current and reliable picture of the global situation for key stakeholders, including donors and governments, to increase political will and commitment to longer term investment • Identify the support required to countries to improve quality and impact of programming • Facilitate capacity development of UNICEF staff for implementation and scale-up of