children referred from inpatient care. Note that 11 patients were referred from outpatient care to inpatient care and 11 admissions are registered in the inpatient care site report as referred from outpatient care. 9. The difference between referrals from inpatient care and admissions to outpatient care could be due to a weak registration system or because some referred children did not go to the outpatient care sites. This observation should trigger closer assessment and supervision of the registration and referral system (e.g., the use of referral slips, the provision of transportation, the messages and explanations given to the mother/caregiver at the time of referral). Note that children who were referred left the site where they were being treated but did not leave the service/programme. The compiled number of cases under treatment in the district is 209, which counts 9 cases less than the sum of the individual report. This difference is due to the 3 missed referrals. Other missed cases may have been in transit while referred across Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 156 months (Note: this could be a shortcoming in the exercise and if this is repeated at the district level in the field, it should be reported for review of the compilation system). Note: The specific discharge rates from the inpatient care site are not calculated. Children that improve are referred to outpatient care to continue treatment. The specific discharge rates would not reflect poor quality as they include ONLY those children with SAM that had medical complications. This is one of the reasons why the programme needs to be evaluated as a whole, combining information from both inpatient and outpatient care as presented in the combined reporting sheet, where the performance indicators provide information of the CMAM service in the district for the management of SAM. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 157 Module 8 Learning Objective 7: Prepare an Outline for CMAM Reporting TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 8.14 Guidance on CMAM Reporting. WORKING GROUPS: DISCUSS CMAM REPORTING NEEDS AND DRAFT AN OUTLINE. Form working groups of five participants. Ask the groups to: 1. Discuss needs and use of CMAM reports: -Who needs and who uses the report for what purposes -Who prepares the report? 2. Draft an outline for minimum reporting on CMAM and discuss the existing monitoring tools and how they feed