module. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: IDENTIFYING LEARNING SITES. Explain that a learning, or pilot, site is one where health care providers from other sites can come to learn skills during in-service training or on a learning visit. Learning sites are important in non-emergency situations but may be difficult to establish in an emergency setting. Ask participants to quickly name what they think key characteristics of a good learning or pilot site are (e.g., strong capacity, easy access). Note that establishing a learning site is an effective base on which to roll out additional services. Next, it is important to define how services will be rolled out to cover the outpatient and inpatient sites as planned and to ensure community outreach skills in all targeted communities. ELICITATION: CONSIDERATIONS IN SELECTING HEALTH FACILITIES. Ask participants what should be taken into account when selecting potential health facilities for CMAM services. Possible answers include: • Sufficient number of qualified staff (according to national policies) for expected caseload • Expected number of patients • Sufficient space at health facility • Ensuring that outpatient care activities will not interfere with other ongoing activities • Storage available • Source of clean drinking water • Areas of population influx and/or hot spots where caseload is always high • Community demand WORKING GROUP DISCUSSION: IDENTIFYING LEARNING AND IMPLEMENTATION SITES. Ask participants, still in working groups, to discuss potential locations for learning and implementation sites in their district. Ask them to discuss the following questions: • Which geographic locations are best? • What kind of support will these sites need? • Which sites seem to be good candidates and why? Have each group share two or three key points of their discussion. Discuss and answer any questions. Next, ask participants to discuss how they would go about expanding CMAM services from the learning site: • At what pace would they roll out new services? • How would they build capacity at new outpatient care sites? • How would they decide where to expand? Have each group share two or three key points of their discussion. READING: UNDERSTANDING STAFFING NEEDS. Refer participants to Handout 7.11 Staff Needs, Roles and Responsibilities and ask them to read quietly. Answer any questions. PRACTICE: CALCULATING RUTF NEEDS. Remind participants that RUTF is an essential component of CMAM, therefore, calculating estimated RUTF needs is essential. Refer participants to Handout 7.12 Calculating Estimated RUTF Needs. Discuss the example given