to district/region. • Investigate health, nutrition and undernutrition preventive and curative services in participants’ communities and countries. • Describe the context of participants’ health systems: how they work, whether they are centralised or de-centralised, who operates in key areas (e.g., NGO or MOH). Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 5 4. Training Content • Adapt course content to the context; limit the content to what participants need to perform their professional responsibilities well. • Ensure that course materials are consistent with national guidelines on indicator cutoffs for admission and discharge, mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC) or use of weight-for-height/weight-for-length (WFH/WFL) as determined by the WHO child growth standards. • Prepare the training agenda and identify persons responsible for each element. • Establish evaluation criteria. 5. Logistics • Identify training days and times. • Determine the training location (establish criteria for adequate workspace, supplies, equipment, job aids). • Identify guest speakers, if applicable, ensure their availability and determine possible logistical needs (e.g., specific timing, transportation) • Identify locations for the field visits. • Plan the field visits with the sites’ supervisors and staff: o Review the schedule of visits. o Ensure that staffing and supplies are sufficient. o Ensure that site-based resource persons can participate. o Consider doing a field visit as early as possible in the training. . • Organise transportation for the field visits. • Plan for any language barriers (between trainer and participants or between participants and locals). When available, pair participants with translators or community members who speak their language and the local language. Arrange for the translators (e.g., transportation if needed, compensation if applicable). • Invite participants. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 6 ANNEX 1. PRINCIPLES OF ADULT LEARNING 1. Dialogue: Adult learning is best achieved through dialogue. The majority of adults have adequate life experience to dialogue with any teacher about any subject and will learn new attitudes or skills best in relation to that life experience. Dialogue must be encouraged and used in formal training, informal talks, one-on-one counselling sessions or any situation where adults learn. 2. Safety in environment and process: Make people feel comfortable about the possibility of making mistakes. Adults are more receptive to learning when they are both physically and psychologically comfortable. • Physical surroundings (e.g., temperature, ventilation, overcrowding, light) can affect learning. • Learning is best done when there