to SFP (Annex 7). If SFP is not available refer to other ongoing community health and nutrition programs and health education and communication interventions (IEC). If child does not meet criteria but requires medical treatment: Refer to the outpatient department immediately for check-up and treatment. STEP 3: Medical Assessment A skilled trained health care provider must assess the child’s medical condition. The assessment includes taking a history of the child’s condition from the caretaker and a full medical examination to rule out medical complications that may require that the child is transferred to inpatient care. ▪ Take a medical and dietary history and record results on the OTP card. ▪ Conduct a physical examination, and record results on the OTP card. ▪ Use the Action Protocol to determine if there are any medical complications (Annex 6). ▪ If the child has one or more medical complications transfer the child to inpatient care. ▪ If the child has no medical complications go to STEP 4. STEP 4: Appetite Test The child’s appetite must be assessed to see if the child will eat the RUTF necessary for recovery. Ask the caretaker to wash her/his hands and the child’s hands with soap. Show the caretaker how to use the RUTF. Give the mother/caretaker the RUTF and ask the caretaker to give the RUTF to the child and watch to see if the child eats the RUTF. This is called an “appetite test” Appetite Observation Action Good Child takes the RUTF eagerly Child may continue in OTP Poor Child takes RUTF with persistent encouragement Child may continue in OTP but must be observed carefully for any weight loss or clinical deterioration Refused Child refuses RUTF even after persistent encouragement Transfer to inpatient care If the child is reluctant to eat the RUTF, the caretaker and child should move to a quiet and private area to encourage the child to take the RUTF, while the health care provider watches. This may take up to one hour. It is essential that the health care provider observe the child eating at least two small xvi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women spoonfuls of RUTF before the child can be accepted for OTP. Care must however be taken to ensure the child is not forced to eat. STEP 5: Decide if the child should continue in OTP