and outreach workers to learn what the major causal factors appear to be based on admissions to the outpatient care to date. • The district health management team, implementing agencies operating in the area, and local health facilities are likely to have access to a range of BCC and IEC materials on various topics about factors contributing to SAM (e.g., complementary foods, exclusive breastfeeding [EBF], dietary variety). • Outreach workers conducting community-level or house-to-house MUAC screenings might benefit from simple training in the management of diarrhoea in children so they can answer questions about this during their rounds. Or, outpatient care staff or volunteers could share information about family planning options to the mothers/caregivers gathered for CMAM. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 57 Module 3 Wrap-Up and Module Evaluation Suggested Method: Review of learning objectives and completion of evaluation form • Review the learning objectives of the module. This module covered: 1. The importance of community outreach to CMAM outcomes 2. The obstacles and enablers of community participation in CMAM 3. The areas of investigation that make up the community assessment 4. The steps involved in moving from assessment to strategy 5. Why it is important to simplify and standardise CMAM messages 6. The main steps required to initiate active CMAM outreach • Ask for any questions and feedback on the module. • Refer participants to Handout 3.12 Elements and Sequencing of CMAM Community Outreach. • Let participants know that they will have an opportunity to meet with community leaders, HEWs, volunteers, and community mothers/caregivers during the community outreach field visit. • Ask participants to fill out the module evaluation form. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 58 FIELD VISIT FOR COMMUNITY OUTREACH The field visit is designed to allow participants to practice the steps needed to develop a community outreach strategy and an action plan. During the field visit, participants will interview one of the following four groups: community leaders; existing extension workers, CHWs and volunteers; younger community mothers/caregivers; older community mothers/caregivers including grandmothers. Participants then will consolidate findings from the interviews, create a handbill (messages to communicate) and begin devising a community outreach strategy and an action plan. It can be difficult to practice realistic community outreach activities in an area that already has CMAM services. The visit should be done at a location that is not