Develop scale-up plan Establish a participatory planning process The planning process should be participatory, through meetings involving the same stakeholders involved in the bottleneck analysis. The planning process should take place under the direction of the appropriate technical working group, such as one overseeing nutrition coordination or management of SAM. This participation is essential to ensure that (a) all available information and experiences are reflected in the plan and (b) that those who support the scale-up and can allocate resources to it are present and able to indicate their commitments in the plan. This participation also allows for consensus to be reached on the gaps identified and for preparation of a concurrent MoRES standard determinants have been adapted for Young Child Survival and Development (YCSD) interventions provided through the health sector and which include the management of SAM; the adaptations cater for the specificity of interventions that are provided mainly through the health system. Once the interventions/programme approaches and objectives are defined, the next step is to further define the ‘pre-conditions’ that need to be in place to fulfil each determinant in order to achieve the desired result in that particular context. The indicators proposed in the DHSS approach, given in annex B, are grouped according to the major determinants for scaleup as well as delivery platforms. They cover all aspects of the approach and incorporate the objective of integration. These can be used to perform a participatory stakeholder appraisal of the stage of scale-up in the country and to identify key areas of concern and main bottlenecks within each of the major determinants. Collect data and assemble the baseline The process of collecting all relevant data for managing implementation of SAM treatment was described in step 1. The data collection to establish a baseline of determinants of coverage is critical. Any gaps in information will need to be filled by additional discussion with key informants, site visits or primary data collection at the community level. If serious data gaps exist, or if quality or accuracy of existing data sources is not adequate, depending on the means of verification this can be a resource-consuming exercise (human, time, financial). Often a mix of already available data and additional data collected ad hoc is used. At this stage, as the baseline is developed it is also extremely important to validate the data independent of the source. One of the most commonly used