Explain to participants the importance of having a clear and accessible filing system for outpatient care treatment cards that makes tracking active and exited cases simple and allows for quick reference. Outpatient care treatment cards should be organised in binders or files that remain in the health facility and should be accessible at all times. Active and exited cases should be separated into two binders or sets of files with dividers. The active cases binder or files include cards for all infants and children currently enrolled in CMAM services at that site. Cards in the exited cases binder or files are organised according to exit category. Staff should review the binders or files weekly. PRACTICE: FILING OUTPATIENT CARE TREATMENT CARDS. Draw a table with two columns on the flip chart. Mark the first column heading as “Active Cases” and the second column as “Exits.” In plenary, ask participants which column each of the following classifications belongs in: • Infants and children currently in outpatient care (Active Cases) • Cured (Exits) Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 141 • Died (Exits) • Non-recovered – those who have not reached discharge criteria after four months of treatment (after medical investigation) (Exits) • Absentees – those who have missed one or two outpatient care follow-on visits (Active Cases) • Defaulted – those who have missed three outpatient care follow-on visits (Exited) • Referrals awaiting return – those who have been referred from outpatient care to inpatient care (Exited temporarily the site, not the service/programme) or for medical investigation (Active Cases) (Note to participants that when the infant/child returns after defaulting or referral, the same outpatient care treatment card is used.) Distribute copies of Handout 4.1 Admission Criteria and Entry Categories for At-Risk Mothers and Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6-59 Months, Handout 4.20 Discharge Criteria and Exit Categories for CMAM and refer participants to Handout 8.4 Filing Outpatient Care Treatment Cards for reference. Discuss the active cases or exits categories if questions arise. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 142 Module 8 Learning Objective 3: Complete Site Tally Sheets and Site and District Reports; Interpret the Findings TRAINER: Review Handout 8.3 Monitoring and Reporting on CMAM and become familiar with Handout 8.5 Site Tally Sheet for the Management of SAM and Nutritionally Vulnerable Infants Under 6 Months, Handout 8.6 Site Report Sheet