The module briefly outlines who should be admitted to inpatient care and why. It also covers admission and discharge processes and criteria as well as the basic principles of medical treatment and nutrition rehabilitation. Emphasis is placed on ensuring a smooth referral process between outpatient care and inpatient care, in both directions. This module is NOT a guide to setting up or managing inpatient care. For this type of guidance, a separate seven-day World Health Organisation (WHO) training course has been designed for health care managers and health care providers who will be managing children with SAM with medical complications in inpatient care. However, participants in the training of this module will partake in a half-day site visit to an inpatient care site to give them a better understanding of CMAM, the comprehensive treatment of SAM, and the referral process between the inpatient and outpatient components. This module is intended to be used alongside the WHO guidelines for the management of severe malnutrition (1999), the WHO update on the management of SAM in infants and children (2013), and national guidelines and treatment protocols. Inpatient care is provided in a hospital or health facility with 24-hour care for children with SAM without appetite or with medical complications until their medical condition is stabilised and the complication is resolving. Treatment then continues in outpatient care until the child recovers sufficient weight. For certain cases, inpatient care sites can provide care for the management of SAM until the child is fully recovered. Learning Objectives Duration Handouts and Exercises 1. Outline the Management of Children with SAM with Medical Complications in Inpatient Care 15 minutes Handout 5.1 Essentials of the Management of SAM With Medical Complications in Inpatient Care 2. Describe Admission and Discharge for the Management of SAM With Medical Complications in Inpatient Care 30 minutes Handout 5.2 Admission Procedures in Inpatient Care Handout 5.3 Admission Criteria and Entry Categories for CMAM Handout 5.4 Discharge Procedures in Inpatient Care Handout 5.5 Discharge Criteria and Exit Categories for CMAM 3. Review Medical and Dietary Treatment in Inpatient Care 30 minutes Handout 5.6 Medical and Dietary Treatment of SAM With Medical Complications 4. Practice the Referral Process Between Inpatient Care and Outpatient Care 30 minutes Handout 5.5 Discharge Criteria and Exit Categories for CMAM Handout 5.7 Practical Implications in Discharges From Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 93 Inpatient Care