to handle the services with current staffing levels. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: CONTINGENCY PLANNING. Explain to participants that unexpected events or circumstances, such as civil unrest or natural disasters, might rapidly increase the number of SAM cases among already vulnerable populations. It is critical to plan for these contingencies so that the system is prepared to handle an increased caseload. For contingency planning, the threshold level—the point where the caseload exceeds the capacity to manage it—must be determined. Factors to consider include: • Number of staff per health facility available for outpatient care • Expected caseload • Having a strategic plan in place to deal with an outpatient care caseload that exceeds capacity to manage it In emergencies, it is important to consider which health facilities can offer CMAM, as well as whether more outpatient care sites will be needed and where to locate them. Human resource requirements should also be estimated. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 132 GROUP DISCUSSION: CONTINGENCY PLANNING. Ask participants to share examples of any advance contingency planning they have done in their health centres for any situation (not necessarily undernutrition). Ask the following questions: • What kind of fluctuations in the health and nutrition situation are common in their community? • What are some key elements that they consider? Refer participants to Handout 7.16 Guidance for Contingency Planning for CMAM. Show the Contingency Planning Process flow chart and ask participants to describe the basic elements of all of the major steps. Also highlight on the CMAM surge approach as an Example of an Approach for Strengthening the Health System to Plan and Manage Increased Demand for SAM and MAM Services. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 133 Module 7 Wrap-Up and Module Evaluation Suggested Method: Review learning objectives and complete evaluation form. • Review the learning objectives of the module. In this module, you have: 1. Described key elements of CMAM aligned with the WHO health systems strengthening (HSS) building blocks and are prepared for the planning process 2. Identified key components of a situation analysis, and analysed and conducted a basic situation analysis 3. Developed a logical framework for CMAM 4. Developed an action plan for CMAM 5. Planned for transition and contingencies, and have a basic understanding of the CMAM surge approach • Ask for any questions and feedback on the module. • Ask