work they did in Module 3: Community Outreach to think through whom they need to involve in planning. Given the main areas of activity identified above, ask participants who they think should be involved. Possible answers could include: • The team coordinating and supervising the intervention • District health officials • Health care providers • Community members; social, political and religious leaders; traditional healers; traditional birth attendants; teachers; mothers, fathers and caregivers (such as grandmothers) • Community groups, women’s groups, farmers associations • Nongovernmental organisations (NGOs) and community-based organisations (CBOs) working in health and nutrition interventions in the district Note: Community leaders and members, and mothers/caregivers must be involved in the community outreach planning process to help planners gain a better understanding of causes of undernutrition, how the community views and treats undernutrition, and barriers to access and health service uptake Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 124 Module 7 Learning Objective 2: Identify Key Components of a Situation Analysis and Conduct a Basic Situation Analysis TRAINER: Review Handout 7.2 Case Study: Situation Analysis, Ghana and become familiar with Handout 7.3 Assessing the Nutrition Situation, Handout 7.4 Mapping Matrices, Handout 7.5 Capacity Grid for CMAM at the District Level, Handout 7.6 SWOT Analysis for CMAM and Handout 7.7 Example Capacity Grids for Outpatient Care at the Health Facility Level and for CMAM at the National Level. BRAINSTORM: COMPONENTS OF THE SITUATION ANALYSIS. Draw a grid with five columns. The column headings will reflect the five components of a situation analysis (below), but do not identify the column headings at this point: 1. Assessing the nutrition situation (including causal framework of undernutrition [UNICEF]) 2. Mapping health and nutrition systems, initiatives and partners at the district and facility levels 3. Assessing the capacity for CMAM 4. Conducting a strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) analysis for CMAM 5. Conclusion: Determining needs Ask participants what information is needed to prepare to plan CMAM services. Provide a few examples to get the conversation started, if necessary. Examples could include prevalence of wasting in their district, how many outpatient care facilities are in the district, whether they provide services for severe acute malnutrition (SAM), etc. Write their responses in the appropriate column. Discuss and ask if participants can think of what the items in each column have in common. Write the intended name for each column and point out that