cost-effectiveness studies using data from a variety of countries have found similar results, despite some methodological differences 91 ENN, 2012a, ‘Government experiences of scale-up of Communitybased Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM): A synthesis of lessons’, www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/CMAM-ConferenceSynthesis,-Addis,-ENN-2012.pdf. Emergencies E-learning tool90, which provide up-to-date materials for training on emergency implementation of management of SAM. Recent developments in techniques for assessing coverage of programmes (see annex C) have resulted in new and updated training materials and initiation of global training events on these methods. Links to many available global training materials are given in annex E, including the tools mentioned in the following sections. Information exchange and resource forums Since the UN endorsement of CMAM, a number of international and regional conferences have been held to share experiences and lessons learned, document technical and implementation modalities, and, most recently, discuss the successes and challenges faced by countries attempting national scale-up. These are listed with links to their meeting reports in annex G. • CMAM forum (www.cmamforum.org) was born of the need for a robust informationsharing mechanism covering implementation management of CMAM programmes in diverse contexts. The forum aims to consolidate the evidence base to document promising practices and lessons learned. It is directed at field-based staff throughout the health and nutrition sectors. The website covers training, advocacy and research as well as a range of resources. It presents monthly technical briefs summarizing the latest news on topics pertinent to management of SAM and MAM. For more information or to share resources, please contact cmamforum@gmail.com. • A discussion group on En-net (www.en-net. org.uk/) on the prevention and treatment of SAM is also proving an active forum for debate on the management of SAM. This free and open resource provides field practitioners with prompt access to technical advice on operational challenges in nutrition. Additional 90 UNICEF, Nutrition in Emergencies E-learning tool http://www.unicef. org/nutrition/training/. SAM MANAGEMENT: INFORMATION FOR PROGRAMMING 55 These results offer the potential for CMAM to be reflected in decision-making tools and plans, though their implementation must reflect potential differences in context, such as SAM prevalence, population density and coverage. The authors suggest that the findings are relevant to a large number of settings where SAM is found. The World Bank has thus used the figure of around $41 per disability-adjusted life year (DALY) averted for inclusion of CMAM in its analysis of the cost of scaled-up nutrition (Horton et al. 201098). Despite this