to ensure a long-term view of what is feasible and sustainable when addressing barriers to scale-up, including addressing shortfalls in the enabling environment. For this reason, coordination of management of SAM exclusively through short-term nutrition coordination structures that are not linked to longer term national coordination structures are discouraged. UNICEF COs are often already supporting government to provide a strong coordination platform for nutrition in both emergency and nonemergency contexts and therefore are well placed to also support management of SAM coordination (see box 11). This coordination platform may be a nutrition sector or cluster.25 Strong national coordination is important to ensure harmonized approaches and standards among partners; clarify roles to maximize resource use and avoid conflicts; achieve consensus on the best approach to scale-up; establish roles and responsibilities; ensure representation of key cross-sectoral stakeholders; and strengthen monitoring and accountability. UNICEF’s technical support should focus on providing the additional information and skills required for government to effectively coordinate the multiple stakeholders involved in the scale-up of SAM management. Ideally, management of SAM coordination is taken on by the existing nutrition coordination group in MoH with substantial authority. In some cases, a smaller subgroup or technical working group may be set up with specific terms of reference to move forward on particular aspects of scale-up. Where management of SAM is strongly coordinated 25 UNICEF as cluster lead agency for nutrition has specific roles and responsibilities in relation to coordination of the nutrition response. For more information, see the Global Nutrition Cluster website http://nutritioncluster.net/. Guidance point: Elements of UNICEF coordination support to governments to scale up SAM management • Providing up-to-date technical expertise, tools, reviews, reports and results of latest operational research on management of SAM • Supporting field supervision visits and holding coordination meetings • Mediating relationships between government and NGOs • Facilitating the process of defining clear roles for various partners • Supporting reviews to guide programming (programme performance, supply chain, coverage etc.). BOX 11 PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 23 • Development of operational plans for scaling up CMAM including costing • Development/adaptation of national protocols, guidelines and materials for management of SAM, including training materials and strategies • Providing technical oversight, analysis of bottlenecks and troubleshooting for implementation • Advocacy/lobbying for inclusion of CMAM in relevant health, nutrition and development policy and in government and donor budgets • Monitoring and reporting on scale-up progress • Linking closely