age. However, cutoff points are yet to be established; therefore it is important to collect data on MUAC to generate evidence in this area. For mothers: Assess MUAC. • Maternal mental health assessment—Check for signs and symptoms of depression, anxiety, and distress. Additionally, assess the food security situation and the mother’s economic situation. Ask the participants to form pairs and review the Handout 2.6: C-MAMI Tool Version 2.0— Assessment for Nutritional Vulnerability in At-risk Mothers and Infants under 6 Months. Answer any questions that arise. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 40 Module 2 Wrap-Up and Module Evaluation Suggested Method: Review the learning objectives and complete the evaluation form. • Review the learning objectives of the module. In this module you have: 1. Discussed causes and consequences of undernutrition, as well as undernutrition terminology 2. Identified the clinical signs of acute malnutrition 3. Measured, calculated and classified acute malnutrition 4. Assessed and classified nutrition vulnerability in at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months of age • Place the following questions in a basket. Ask volunteers to pick a question and answer it. Discuss answers. 1. What are some basic causes of undernutrition? 2. What kinds of actions are being taken in your community to address undernutrition? 3. What is acute malnutrition? How is SAM defined? 4. How do you measure bilateral pitting oedema? 5. What does the red colour mean on a MUAC tape? 6. What is nutrition vulnerability? 7. How do we assess nutritional vulnerability in at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months of age? • Let participants know that they will have an opportunity to assess for bilateral pitting oedema, use MUAC tapes, measure WFH/WFL, and assess feeding of infants under 6 months during field visits. • Ask participants to complete the evaluation form. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 41 MODULE THREE: COMMUNITY OUTREACH Module Overview This module explains why community outreach is an indispensable component of community-based management of acute malnutrition (CMAM). The module also explains why community outreach should be approached systematically and well in advance of actual CMAM start-up. Community outreach is not a new concept within the health sector. It is important to emphasise that all efforts should be made to assess the existing health outreach systems and actors and that community outreach for CMAM should build upon and further strengthen these existing