3-5 kg blended food and 300-450g of oil Ration for one month: 6-10kg blended food and 600-900g oil Other commodities such as sugar, powdered milk, pulses and high energy biscuits may be added to the ration depending on what is available. Sugar is already included to some blended foods. Where available, sugar can be added to blended food to increase palatability and energy. Milk powder cannot be distributed alone. It must be mixed with a blended food before distribution. Blended foods can be mixed with oil, sugar and/or powdered milk prior to distribution. This is known as premix. The aim in using premix is to ensure that rations (particularly high value commodities such as oil) do not end up being used for general household use or being sold on the market. However, the process of pre-mixing can be time consuming. It also reduces the shelf life of the ration. Once oil is mixed with blended food, it will last a maximum of two weeks before going rancid. Ready to use supplementary food (RUSF) may be used in place of dry blended foods for the treatment of MAM. RUSF is highly energy and nutrient dense and does not require cooking. It is also light in weight making it easy to transport and distribute. Ready to use food for children (RUF-C) is a concentrated nutrient dense paste which is used for the prevention of acute malnutrition. It may be packed in cartons or in sachets. It may be used for a defined period of time in a blanket distribution to all children 6-24 or 36 months. It can also be used in general ration. SFP follow-up visits ▪ Children and mothers should attend the SFP every month or every two weeks for monitoring and to receive their supplementary ration. ▪ Each visit the MUAC and weight is measured, the oedema checked. ▪ Children with apparent medical complications should be referred to in-patient care (or the nearest health facility if this is not practical). ▪ If the child has not gained weight after two consecutive monthly visits or after three two weekly visits or if the child is losing weight at any visit refer him/her for a medical check up at the nearest in-patient care or health facility. ▪ Children who are admitted to SFP and then deteriorate and meet entry criteria for OTP should be transferred to OTP (Annex 25). Health education