the Ministry of Health after an exhaustive process of technical review and consultations with relevant stakeholders. The process of development of these National Guidelines has taken a period of approximately two years and has had technical inputs from UNICEF, Save the Children US, WHO, Valid International, WFP, Pakistan Paediatric Association, Federal and Provincial nutrition focal persons. I would like to express my gratitude to all the partners who have contributed to this process and also highlight the efforts of the former DDG’s of Nutrition Wing (Dr. Zahid Larik, Dr. Haroon Jehangir) in initiating the process. Save the Children has been engaged in the process to develop national CMAM guidelines for Pakistan since the first consensus meeting in Karachi in March 2008. Following this initial consensus meeting, the first draft was developed and then the process was revived again and a technical working group meeting on the draft guidelines was called for in November 2008. Following the meeting in November, Save the Children updated the available draft guidelines in 2009 in line with technical inputs and recommendations from UNICEF and WHO. The final draft was reviewed by national and international experts (Valid International). I would like to extend my gratitude to my colleagues Ms. Sarita Neupane and Dr. Shahid Mehboob Awan (UNICEF) and Mr. Paul Binns (Valid International) for their hard work and technical inputs in the development of these guidelines. MOH and UNICEF organized a three day technical meeting to finalize and endorse the guidelines which was facilitated by Ms. Caroline Tanner (Save the Children US). This was followed by another consultative meeting with the purpose to seek inputs from the provincial counterparts, paediatricians and nutritionists on the operational aspects of the CMAM guidelines. The Director General Health attended the meeting and stressed on the need to elevate nutrition on the national agenda for health and emphasized the urgent need to tackle the issue of acute malnutrition in Pakistan given the persistently high rates of wasting. I would also take this opportunity to highlight the persistent efforts and technical support of my team at the Nutrition Wing (Dr. Sherbaz Khan, Mr. Yaqoob Qureshi, Dr. Aliya Kashif and Dr. M. Suleman Qazi) in the development of these Guidelines. Dr.Baseer Khan Achakzai DDG Health (Nutrition) Nutrition Wing, MoH. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT vi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Acute Malnutrition Wasting and/or oedematous