at any time. The child should again be referred to inpatient care if his/her condition worsens. Child G: Question: Child G is above 6 months and was admitted with a MUAC of 109 mm and a weight of 5 kg. The child gained a little weight the first week but has not gained weight for the past two weeks. His medical assessment does not show any signs of illness or medical complications. Answer: The health care provider should talk with the mother/caregiver about how the child is eating the RUTF and observe the appetite test. The health care provider should ask whether the child has had diarrhoea, vomiting or fever and should give counselling. The child also requires a follow-up home visit. Child H Question: Child H is a 2-week-old boy whose mother is breastfeeding. The infant has now regained his birth weight. The mother thinks she is not producing enough milk for him and wants to give him some diluted cow’s milk. What action is needed? Answer: The mother-infant pair should be enrolled in outpatient care. Counsel and support the mother (and family) to continue to breastfeed. Review breastfeeding basics: good attachment; effective suckling; frequency of breastfeeds; not giving any plain water, liquids, or solids. Talk with the mother about why she thinks she doesn’t have enough breast milk, explain supply and demand, and build her confidence. Connect the mother to any community or facility breastfeeding support. Ask the mother to return with her son the following week. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 82 Module 4 Learning Objective 9: Explain Discharge Criteria and Procedures for At-Risk Mothers and Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months TRAINER: Review Handout 4.16 Outpatient Care Action Protocol for Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months and become familiar with Handout 4.19 Outpatient Care: Discharge Criteria for At-Risk Mothers and Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months, Handout 4.20 Discharge Criteria and Exit Categories for CMAM, and Exercise 4.4 Partially Completed Outpatient Care Treatment Cards. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: DISCHARGE FROM OUTPATIENT CARE. Using the text in Handout 4.19 Outpatient Care: Discharge Criteria for At-Risk Mothers and Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months as a reference, review the criteria for discharge from outpatient care, noting that: • A child is discharged from outpatient care when s/he has recovered from bilateral pitting oedema or low weight