about the programme, so that communities don’t know about it or don’t understand who is eligible or why • Poor motivation and heavy workload of community volunteers Insufficient attention to community mobilization (or demand creation) has been identified as a major barrier to achieving programme coverage, particularly during the initial stages of implementation (Ethiopia, Ghana, Mozambique, Pakistan, Somalia, Sierra Leone) (ENN 2012a37). Poor community mobilization may result from (a) 37 ENN, 2012a, ‘Conference on government experiences of scaling up the Community-based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) and lessons for the Scaling Up (SUN) movement,’ http://www. ennonline.net/ourwork/ennmeetings/cmamconference2011. a scale-up could change that. Although the RUTF manufacturing process is technically not complicated, substantial investment is required in infrastructure, manufacturing equipment, quality control laboratory, starting materials and working capital. For this reason, supplies purchased from outside the country may be more cost effective in terms of production costs. Overall efficiency Good practice: Protecting shelf life of products Pharmaceuticals have limited shelf life and must be stored under appropriate conditions to maintain their quality. It is important to assure proper inventory management and stock rotation (first expired, first out) of these products. Nutrition products also have limited shelf life, determined mostly by the stability of the vitamins and minerals contained in the finished product. Shelf life of RUTF and therapeutic milk is 24 months, indicated on the label as ‘best before’ date. The ‘best before’ date indicates the last date on which the manufacturer guarantees the product’s compliance with product specifications. Use of products after that date is not recommended. It is not possible to extend product shelf life based on analytical testing of product samples. Product shelf life can be affected by storage conditions. High humidity and temperatures accelerate the degradation of vitamins. Therefore, it is important to comply with instructions provided by the manufacturers when storing nutritional products: • Products should be stored in clean, dry and cool warehouses away from direct sunlight. • Temperature and humidity in the warehouses should be regularly checked and recorded. • Products must be stored in a way that allows air circulation and regular stock turnover. Further resources on the supply chain are listed in annex E. BOX 23 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 38 Resources like the CMAM forum39 and en-net40 (see page 54) or consultation with regional or headquarters nutrition advisors or international experts are useful to ensure addressing gaps in guidance during the guideline