OpenCSAS A simple data-entry and reporting tool for CSAS coverage surveys that can be downloaded at http://www. brixtonhealth.com/opencsas.html. CSAS coverage calculator A spreadsheet (Microsoft Excel ‘95 format) for calculating coverage estimates and drawing plots and maps from coverage survey data collected using the CSAS methodology. The spreadsheet also provides capturerecapture estimates of the sensitivity of a case-finding procedure, and can be downloaded at http://www. brixtonhealth.com/CSASCoverEmpty.xls. A spreadsheet containing example data is available at http://www.brixtonhealth.com/CSASCoverExample.xls. Bayes SQUEAC calculator A simple calculator for performing Bayesian beta-binomial conjugate analysis designed for use in SQUEAC assessments. Available for Windows, Linux and Macintosh platforms at http://www.brixtonhealth.com/. LQAS Sampling Plan Calculator A simple LQAS sampling plan calculator for use in SQUEAC and SLEAC assessments. There are two versions of this calculator. The first (available at www. brixtonhealth.com/hyperLQAS.html) is used for finding sample size required and corresponding decision threshold (d) given population and desired α(alpha) and β (beta errors. The second (available at www.brixtonhealth.com/hyperLQAS.findD.html) is used for finding d given achieved sample size. Both implementation of the software can be made to run online from the links provided. For offline use, the HTML file can be saved onto your computer’s hard disk or USB drive and open locally using any web browser. Xmind Open source mind mapping software downloadable at www.xmind.net. ANNEX D 89 Benchmarks for scale-up of SAM management at national level ANNEX D Component Advocacy and planning Pilot and early implementation Scale-up Indicators. See UNICEF L3 indicator document for more guidance ENABLING ENVIRONMENT Policy setting • National policies reviewed • Ongoing policy development • Incorporation of CMAM into nutrition/health/development policy • National health and nutrition policies support management of SAM Coordination and management • Mapping of partners conducted • Situation and capacity analysis conducted (of health system & community) • Technical working group set up including key national stakeholders • MoH leadership and coordination established at national level (coordination structure, focal point and management assigned) • Review meeting convened to evaluate early experience • Stakeholder meeting develops scale-up plan • MoH leadership and coordination institutionalized at national, regional and district level (coordination structure, focal point and management assigned) • Regular stakeholder coordination meetings established • Membership of coordination meetings spans sectors • Annual reviews of progress and bottlenecks • Proportion of coordination groups for SAM which have met within the last 3 months Social Norms • Community investigation of beliefs about SAM and care seeking