or if the child is losing weight at any visit refer him/her for a medical check up at the nearest in-patient care or health facility. ▪ Children who are admitted to SFP and then deteriorate and meet entry criteria for OTP should be transferred to OTP (Annex 25). Health education in SFP ▪ SFP presents a good opportunity for health education. Clear information should be given on how to use the ration in a hygienic manner and how and when it should be consumed. Practical preparation xlviii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women and cooking demonstrations should be given at the SFP site/in the community. The gathering of large numbers of mothers and caretakers is a good opportunity for health education. ▪ Simple messages can be developed for use in the SFP and in the community that attempt to address some of the underlying reasons for the child or mother becoming malnourished in the first place. In some contexts these messages may already exist and can be adapted (for infant and young child feeding breastfeeding and complementary feeding messages). Every attempt should be made to use the same or similar messages that are given out in other existing programmes. ▪ It is essential that messages are reinforced by practice. These messages should focus on: basic hygiene such as hand-washing, the importance of frequent and active feeding and what local foods to give young children; identifying malnutrition; management of diarrhoea and fever and recognising danger signs. Three essential messages (must be given and practiced at SFP) ▪ Hand-washing with soap before eating and after defecation. ▪ Exclusive breastfeeding (for 6 months) and introduction and use of appropriate complementary foods. ▪ Continued feeding during illness. Exit criteria from SFP Children can be discharged from SFP when: ▪ MUAC>125mm And ▪ Minimum of two months of stay in SFP Pregnant and lactating women can be discharged from SFP when: ▪ MUAC>210mm And ▪ Minimum of two months of stay in SFP Other reasons for exit: ▪ Died: Child died during time they were registered in SFP. ▪ Defaulted: Absent more than two consecutive visits if SFP is monthly or 3 consecutive visits if SFP is operating every two weeks. ▪ Not recovered: Children who do not meet discharge criteria after 4 months in program. Children who do not recover and do not