recognise this as a problem created not by undernutrition but by “spoiled” breast milk. You counsel your friend to get roots from a community healer, boil them and bathe the child with the water. However, your friend eventually decides to accept referral to outpatient care, so you try to help by watching her other children for the day and cooking for her husband. Husband: You come home to find your wife talking with the health messenger and are initially annoyed that she has let him/her into the compound. However, when it becomes clear he/she is not trying to make you build a latrine, you relax. You have to choose between the traditional remedy suggested by your neighbour and the messenger’s advice to let your wife go to the health post where your child will receive a new treatment that can be brought home. You would not mind your wife’s going to the health post, but in the past, you have seen that children in this condition have been moved from the health post to the district hospital with their mothers/caregivers where they spent weeks under care. You love your daughter and want her to recover, but you are also afraid of how this would affect your family. How would your family eat? Furthermore, it is the weeding season, and the time your wife spends at the health post—away from home—will reduce your harvest. You want assurances that she will be able to return from the health post promptly. Second Neighbour (returning on the road): You are on your way back from the outpatient care site and are very annoyed. Yesterday you were called to attend a screening in your community. You waited all morning in the sun while children were measured. Your child was selected to attend outpatient care. But today, after walking over an hour to the health post, the outpatient care staff re-measured your child and refused to admit him. You and several other mothers/caregivers waited to speak to the head clinician because you thought the measurers were cheating you. After all, you were referred from the community with a note! However, the programme seemed to be taking all day, the staff were overworked and shorttempered, and the crowding was stressful. Therefore, you left without presenting your grievance. Why, you wonder, are people forced to waste their time like this during the harvest? As you walk home, you