and 37 percent cultivable waste32. Wheat is the main staple and most important cereal crop in Merged Areas, followed by maize. Barley and rice are also grown in small quantities. The total area under major crops and their production have reduced significantly with the onset of complex emergency starting in 2008. People who returned did not have the resources to resume their livelihoods or to bring back their production to pre crises situation. Moreover, the unstable security situation in the area has further weakened the already feeble markets. The traditionally neglected problems combined with years of complex humanitarian situation has affected the food security and livelihood situation in the Merged Areas. Both agriculture and livestock sectors have significantly been impacted by this fragile environment. On the other hand, the land laws and revenue system on Merged Areas is different than the rest of the country. The agriculture sector performance in the Merged Areas has been poor due to number of challenges and constraints. These include farmers’ limited access to quality inputs at the local level, coupled 32 Development statistics of FATA, 2015, Bureau of Statistics, Planning and Development Department, FATA Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 27 with poor purchasing power; limited water availability, limited technical skills and knowledge related to the improved agriculture practices, and limited storage capacities and marketing skills. Agricultural Land Ownership In order to capture key household level information on agriculture, the CFSLA asked about ‘agriculture land ownership’ ‘major production in Rabi and Kharif cropping seasons’ ‘area cultivated’ and ‘key issues and problems’ households face in the agriculture sector. According to the findings, overall, 46 percent of households in the Merged Areas reportedly have ‘no agricultural land or landless’. Across the Merged Areas, 86 percent households in TSD D.I. Khan, 85 percent in TSD Tank and 72 percent in TSD Peshawar ‘do not hold agriculture land’. According to the findings, 43 percent of the households have upto to 2 acres of agriculture land, 7 percent households have 2 to 4 acres of land while only 4 percent households have more than 4 acres of agriculture land. The proportion of households owning agricultural land is relatively higher in North Waziristan, Mohmand and Bajaur Districts where about 72 percent, 66 percent and 62 percent of the households are engaged in the agriculture activities or own agricultural land. However, the land holdings