www.ncbi.nlm.nih. gov/pubmed/20002705. 35 Pelletier, D.L. et al., 2012, “Nutrition agenda setting, policy formulation and implementation: lessons from the Mainstreaming Nutrition Initiative,” Health Policy Plan 27(1): 19-31. http://www.ncbi. nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21292709. GOOD PRACTICES FOR ADDRESSING BOTTLENEKCS IN SCALING UP 33 • Workload and motivation of community-level workers and volunteers • Rotation of staff within the health system • Skills and capacity of health workers at facility and community level The response must be closely based on the assessment of capacities and bottlenecks, • Weak coordination structures • Lack of long-term funding • Lack of cost and cost-effectiveness data for development of plans Over the last few years, management of SAM has often been scaled-up through ad hoc expansion of the approach driven by stakeholder and partner activities, district officials’ enthusiasm, availability of funds and emergencies. In some respects this reflects the nature of the approach, which is demand driven and builds on the commitment of district officials to produce results. Though in some cases (e.g., Somalia) quality has been maintained while impressive scale-up has been achieved in this ad hoc fashion (ENN 2012a36), the dangers of relying on such an approach are: • Lack of ownership by central government, resulting in low allocation of time and resources • Coordination challenges, including conflicts between NGOs and government over areas of expansion • Pipeline breaks in RUTF as a result of demand exceeding supply • Poor quality of programmes, with insufficient resource allocation to follow up on trainings As a result, those most in need of services may not be covered. For some solutions, see box 19. Supplies Human resources: availability and competencies Common human resource bottlenecks include: • Staffing levels and workload within the health system 36 ENN, 2012a, ‘Government experiences of scale-up of Communitybased Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM): A synthesis of lessons’, www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/CMAM-ConferenceSynthesis,-Addis,-ENN-2012.pdf Good practice: Facilitating resource mobilization • Develop accurate funding estimates for management of SAM programmes, with clear scale-up plans and targets. Assess the possibility of piggy backing management of SAM on other resourced child survival programmes. • Implement additional cost-effectiveness studies in different contexts and with different scale-up modalities, linking with existing services to reduce costs and improve effectiveness. • In discussions with donors, focus on the threshold model and use the DRR lens to emphasize the importance of management of SAM in the long term. • Bring donors into scale-up discussions along with government so that both sides