well as the training time available. Note that if Module One is skipped for any reason, trainers should give participants the following Module One handouts that are referred to in other modules: Handout 1.1 Abbreviations and Acronyms, Handout 1.2 Terminology for CMAM and Handout 1.3 References and Further Reading. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 3 Module Approximate Classroom Time Approximate Site Visit/Field Practice Time Introduction 1 hour 1 Overview of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) 1 ½ hour 1 day site visit 2 Defining and Measuring Acute Malnutrition 3 hours See Module Four 3 Community Outreach 3 ½ hours 1 day field practice 4 Outpatient Care for the Management of SAM Without Medical Complications 8 hours 3 days field practice, during which participants will also practice skills covered in Module Two 5 Inpatient Care for the Management of SAM with Medical Complications in the Context of CMAM 2 hours ½ day site visit 6 Management of Moderate Acute Malnutrition (MAM) in the Context of CMAM 2 hours ½ day site visit 7 Planning CMAM Services at the District Level 8 hours 8 Monitoring and Reporting on CMAM 5 hours ½ day field practice Total 34 hours (about 4½ days) 6½ days Planning the Agenda for a CMAM Training Trainers/facilitators should develop a course plan that best suits the needs of their participants and their resources. Here are some considerations when planning the training agenda: • Health care providers (practitioners) will usually complete all classroom modules, one to two days of site visits and 4½ days of practice in the field. • Health care managers will usually complete all classroom modules and one to two days of site visits. • Conduct a site visit as soon as possible so participants can see the relevance of the classroom sessions. • To facilitate the hands-on nature of the field visits, it is ideal to have no more than five to seven participants at the same site at the same time. It might be necessary to schedule visits at multiple sites or times to accommodate all the participants. • Provide sufficient time for transportation to and from field sites. • Schedule time for debriefing and discussion of field visits. • Be aware of the schedules of the sites you are visiting. For example, if outpatient care is available only in the morning, those field visits should be