with a note! However, the programme seemed to be taking all day, the staff were overworked and shorttempered, and the crowding was stressful. Therefore, you left without presenting your grievance. Why, you wonder, are people forced to waste their time like this during the harvest? As you walk home, you meet a woman from a neighbouring community (community mother) who says she was referred to the same programme. You tell her your story and bitterly advise her not to waste her time. Outpatient Care Nurse: You have been busy all morning examining children as part of these new services. You are glad there is finally an effective treatment for malnourished children, but things cannot go on as they are in the same disorganised fashion. People are everywhere in the clinic, asking for food and assistance. This is not a general store! You are a clinician, but increasingly you are being asked to manage a relief operation. The stress has been making you irritable, especially with mothers/caregivers who have been deliberately returning to the screening queue after being rejected just minutes earlier. Now here comes a mother (community mother) trying to get into the outpatient care line without even going to the screening queue first! The irritation is too much for you. You angrily tell her to go away. Now the crowd is getting involved. As you turn your attention back to the child in front of you, the last thing you see is the mother surrounded by people loudly offering contradictory advice. WORKING GROUPS: OVERCOMING OBSTACLES THROUGH COMMUNITY OUTREACH. Divide participants into working groups and refer them to Exercise 3.2 Overcoming Obstacles to Community Participation in CMAM. Point out that it contains a summary of some of the obstacles just discussed. Ask the working groups to think about who should be involved in planning for community outreach to best overcome these obstacles and what other steps might be needed. Discuss. Direct participants to Handout 3.1 for future reading and reference. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 48 Module 3 Learning Objective 2: Identify Key Elements of a Community Assessment TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 3.2 Community Assessments and Handout 3.3 Community Assessment Steps and Methods. GROUP DISCUSSION: THE ROLE OF THE COMMUNITY ASSESSMENT. Note for participants that this is the first step in preparation for CMAM community outreach. In plenary, ask participants why a community