mass produced commodity, (b) the belief that the number of children suffering from SAM does not justify adoption of a decentralized programme or (c) the view that the approach is not currently feasible. In such cases UNICEF’s main objective is to ensure that sufficient monitoring and data collection are in place to clearly demonstrate the burden of SAM in the country, ensure that alternative approaches are rigorously evaluated to produce evidence for future use, and facilitate and advocate for the introduction of the community-based approach where evidence indicates it is merited. See page 5 for more guidance on introducing the community based approach. Aim and scope This guidance document takes the approach that CMAM is the desired, evidence-based approach to treating SAM for the majority of children in need. The aim of this document is therefore to provide the more practical guidance now required at the country level to establish and continue scaling up community-based management of SAM using an approach that is embedded within existing systems and serves to strengthen them. The focus is on designing, establishing and managing 6 This refers to ready-to-use therapeutic food as defined in the specifications from the WHO/WFP/SCN and UNICEF Joint Statement on Community-Based Management of Severe Acute Malnutrition, 2007. reported that they implemented the communitybased approach to some degree, increasingly outside of emergency contexts, and many are working towards its integration within national health systems. Experience in introducing and scaling up CMAM has brought many challenges and lessons, many of these documented in country level evaluations4 and consolidated in the 2013 report of UNICEF’s global evaluation5 of community management of acute malnutrition (CMAM). Current challenges lie particularly in (a) creating enabling national policy environments, (b) supporting governments to accelerate and sustain scale-up, (c) building national capacities of health workers and other stakeholders in scaling up access to quality treatment of SAM and (d) strengthening the functioning of health systems to support the management of SAM and ensure reliable and sustained supplies and financing. In particular, many countries have struggled to develop central operational plans to scale-up management of SAM, and specifically to scale-up the communitybased approach recommended for the treatment of children suffering from severe acute malnutrition but without medical complications. In most countries, the progress seen to date has largely been achieved through ad hoc expansion of the approach based on responses by nongovernment organizations (NGOs) and United Nations agencies, the