volunteers (e.g., CHWs, community-based family planning distributors/educators, home-based care [HBC] volunteers, vitamin A distributors) 2. Other extension workers and volunteers (e.g., agricultural extension workers, social welfare officers, NGO project workers) 3. Important community figures (e.g. teacher, priest or catechist, secondary school leavers, elected leaders, cultural leaders, traditional healers) PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: HOME VISITS AND FOLLOW-UP OF HIGH-RISK CASES. Note to participants that because follow-up home visits are required only for high-risk cases (i.e., those not thriving or responding, absentees, and defaulters), the majority of outpatient care cases, which are not high risk, can easily be neglected. However, it is important to make adequate provision for them. As with arrangements for case-finding, plans for follow-up home visits should be made before the first outpatient care patients are received. Since the range of personnel available for follow-up home visits can vary from one outpatient care site to another, it might be impossible to make a “one-size-fits-all” arrangement. Instead, responsibilities might need to be worked out separately for each site. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 54 Module 3 Learning Objective 4: Discuss Considerations for Developing and Using CMAM Messages TRAINER: Refer back to Exercise 3.1 Barriers to Access Role-Play and become familiar with Handout 3.7 Developing Simple and Standardised CMAM Messages, Handout 3.8 Reference: Handbill Messages, and Handout 3.9 Reference: Visual Communication Tools. GROUP DISCUSSION: THE NEED FOR STANDARD CMAM MESSAGES. Remind participants that the development of messages and materials is the third step in preparation for CMAM community outreach. In plenary, explain that the most important messages are simple, standardised messages describing the program itself. Ask participants to describe why this is important. Remind them of what they witnessed in Exercise 3.1 Barriers to Access Role-Play. Possible answers include: • To clarify how the service is offered and to whom • To ensure that the community is relying on accurate information and not rumours which can hurt community participation and service access and uptake • To facilitate the spread of information through word of mouth BRAINSTORM: DEVELOPING STANDARD CMAM MESSAGES. Ask participants to think through the key information (what? how? who? where? when?) that would need to be conveyed to make sure the community’s understanding of the CMAM services is both accurate and complete. Write answers on a flip chart, filling in gaps with the typical content found in Handout 3.7 Developing Simple and Standardised CMAM Messages,