monitoring, supervising, and analysis and reporting. Training on these aspects should be extended to other relevant staff such as information managers and pharmacists to ensure integration. Topics are typically dealt with in global training materials, but they must be adapted to address the context. • Facility level: The most effective way to build and maintain the quality of SAM management is to offer classroom training by experienced trainers, followed by on-the-job mentoring and learning visits that allow health workers to support each other. (Classroom training alone has very limited impact.) This method has also been found to help trainees to retain skills learned and minimize the time spent out of the facility. This should be further boosted with supportive supervision to maintain and enhance lessons learned and identify additional Guidance point: Successful community mobilization strategies • Agree on responsibilities for developing, implementing and monitoring community mobilization. These responsibilities may be shared between the MoH and any other appropriate ministry or administrative body. • Use paid community health workers from other initiatives or MOH to identify cases of SAM • Complement paid health workers with volunteers/community agents identified from a broad range of fields, working on narrowly defined tasks in a limited geographic area. • Jointly train community agents with health facility staff to promote understanding and team-building. After training, hold regular meetings to discuss issues – this is particularly useful in building appreciation for the work of community agents among health facility staff. • Promote positive mother-to-mother communication to bring in new cases. • Add MUAC screenings to Child Health Week activities, immunization campaigns and growth monitoring sessions and in early childhood development centres • Incorporate messages on SAM and SAM management into programme communication strategies. BOX 7 PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 17 supply catalogue (see page 60).16 RUTF lies at the centre of the community-based approach to management of SAM. At the same time, among therapeutic supplies (pharmaceuticals, equipment, etc.) procurement of RUTF presents the biggest challenge as it represents about half of total costs for implementation and is a heavy and high-value commodity. Considerable supply chain analysis and support is needed, along with experience in providing such a heavy product, if supplies are to be delivered reliably through government mechanisms. (See page 35 for guidance on addressing common supply bottlenecks.) Establish links within and outside the health sector There are many potential entry points within the