4. Management of At-Risk Mothers and Infants under 6 Months of Age (MAMI): Following the 2013 WHO updates on the management of SAM in infants and children, infants under 6 months should be managed according to the same basic principles as children age 6–59 months, including distinguishing those infants with medical complications from those without medical complications and managing the uncomplicated cases in outpatient care. Currently, there is a lack of evidence on the case management of at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months of age; this includes an ongoing debate on anthropometric and non-anthropometric indicators and what criteria to use to define nutritional risk. While research on MAMI is ongoing, expert opinion and programming experiences from members of the MAMI Special Interest Group have been used to provide guidance in this training guide. The technical content is drawn from and references to the C-MAMI Tool Version 2.0. Prior to country level implementation, it is recommended that users refer to latest evidence and Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version iv recommendations as details of case management strategies and approaches are evolving rapidly. Additional references are available here: https://www.ennonline.net/ourwork/research/mami. Key guiding principles to the MAMI content in this training guide are as follows: • Instead of “acute malnutrition”, the term “nutrition vulnerability” is preferred because it captures broader characteristics of the needs of infants under 6 months of age and recognizes that not all these infants are equally vulnerable; for example, some had a low birth weight but are subsequently growing well, while other infants are presently not wasted but are at risk and therefore in need of intervention. It is important that infants “at risk” are distinguished and that the case management identifies and addresses underlying problems such as ability to feed, underlying medical conditions, maternal illness and poor mental health, and adverse social circumstances. • Nutritionally vulnerable infants under 6 months of age without complications are managed in outpatient care, whereas nutritionally vulnerable infants with complications are referred for 24-hour inpatient care. • Nutrition support, particularly establishment of effective exclusive breastfeeding, is the main intervention in the case management of infants under 6 months. • The well-being of an infant is strongly influenced by a mother’s health, mental health, nutrition, and social circumstances; therefore, the mother and infant are best considered as a “motherinfant pair” and are enrolled and managed together. 5. Combined Protocol