to implement activities related to food security assessments. This will allow the government to design specific food security policies/interventions including all aspects of food security. Given the complex and multi-dimensional nature of food insecurity, federal and provincial governments, UN agencies, INGOs and other relevant stakeholders should closely coordinate and jointly work in designing, programming and implementing appropriate food security and livelihood programmes. This coordination should be reflected in the ADP, Provincial/Districts level SDGs work. Food insecurity should also be integrated into the policy level consultations for reviewing Tribal Decade Strategy TDS/Accelerated Implementation Plan (AIP) and other instruments such as the 5Years Plan, Agriculture Action Plan, One UN program, State of Food Insecurity (SOFI) Reports and the Scaling Up Nutrition SUN, DRR/ Contingency Plans. Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 72 Gender and protection concerns should be based on a consultative, community level process and streamlined into the design of all interventions. Female-headed households experience greater poverty and vulnerability than male-headed households by almost all measures. The former group should be the focus of development assistance. Protection must be central during the transition period and be integrated into all sectoral activities. Specific services to facilitate the receipt of legal status and documentation, resolution of disputes, and to address gender related matters must remain important priorities. Food Availability 1. The promotion of a diverse, high value agriculture like horticultural crops, livestock and domestic poultry can significantly enhance the food security and nutrition of the rural households, particularly smallholders. 2. Farm Services Centres (FSCs) may be upgraded along the lines of Models FSCs and Farm extension /advisory services may be provided to smallholders to overcome low agricultural productivity and reduce post-harvest losses. The focus should be on the transfer of new knowledge and innovations to lower production cost and enhance quality. 3. The investment in agriculture R&D is critical to develop approaches towards sustainable production of nutritious food, especially in food deficit areas. 4. Local markets are generally well integrated and physically accessible, with adequately available food commodities throughout the year. The price of the most important staple food (wheat flour) is generally volatile and in line with the national pricing trends. 5. Considering the characteristics of the seven surveyed Districts and Tribal Sub-Divisions in terms of current livelihoods and food security, it is recommended that households obtain more immediate to medium term assistance in line