scale-up the communitybased approach recommended for the treatment of children suffering from severe acute malnutrition but without medical complications. In most countries, the progress seen to date has largely been achieved through ad hoc expansion of the approach based on responses by nongovernment organizations (NGOs) and United Nations agencies, the enthusiasm of district officials particularly in emergency contexts with short term funding. The shift in focus over the last few years to non-emergency contexts calls for a more planned approach to scaling up. UNICEF is in a unique position to support the management of SAM at the national level. This is due to its close supportive relationship with ministries of health, as well as its partnerships with a network of international and national 4 The CMAM forum hosts many country-level documents and evaluations on CMAM http://www.cmamforum.org/ 5 UNICEF, 2013, ‘Global Evaluation of Community Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM): Global Synthesis Report’, 2013. www. unicef.org/evaldatabase/index_69843.html INTRODUCTION 3 including UNICEF’s corporate aims in relation to SAM management, evidence and history, partnerships and core programme components in Chapter 3. The guidance document does not aim to provide comprehensive technical protocols for managing individual cases of SAM or training materials for management of SAM. These resources already exist and are referred to throughout the document and summarized in the annexes. The scope of this guidance document is the outpatient and inpatient therapeutic components of the management of SAM including the community-level component, local production of RUTF and links to information about interventions to prevent malnutrition (see figure 1). The community component is particularly emphasized as it has often been neglected, and there is extensive evidence showing that CMAM without a strong community component results in limited coverage and therefore limited impact. high-quality national programmes in a variety of contexts that reach the majority of children in need. The objectives of this guidance document are to: 1. Strengthen the capacity of country teams to effectively scale up and manage programmes to address severe acute malnutrition 2. Extend the geographic reach of quality treatment for SAM to all vulnerable communities in need7 3. Maximize access to appropriate and quality treatment for SAM among all eligible children in the community at all times8 4. Aid the formulation and implementation of national policies and strategies that support objectives 1 to 3 5. Aid the creation of an enabling environment that supports objectives 1 to 3 through advocacy, documentation