What are the beliefs about treatments? What are the paths to treatment? How do they differ from health problems? • Attitudes toward formal health services: What is the community’s experience and perception of formal health services? • Alternative services: What alternative services/ measures do communities use (e.g., home remedies, pharmacies, traditional healers)? How significant is their role and how do they/ are they perceived to, interact with the formal health services? • Community homogeneity/heterogeneity: What are the various identity designators (e.g., language, ethnicity, religion, politics) which can define communities, which are necessary to provide information and services equitably or to make special efforts to reach excluded or marginalized groups? • What are the health staff’s beliefs and understanding about public health, the importance of, causes, progression and treatment of SAM? • What are the health staff’s attitudes towards communities and families with children with SAM in particular? B4. Additional assessments The above should be complemented by more in-depth analysis of the supply chain (see Articulation tool, annex E), coverage and barriers to coverage (see annex C), quality of care (see performance indicators, section 2.5) and management systems (see DIVA tool, annex E). ANNEX C 81 This annex provides an overview of the current direct coverage assessment methods as well as resources for further information. C1. Initiating a coverage survey Coverage surveys can be extremely important for providing data to guide key programmatic decisions. At the same time, it is critical to think through the reasons for conducting a survey in the first place. Experience has shown that there are several aspects to take into consideration when deciding whether or not to implement a coverage survey. The enabling environment, objective, maturity of the programme and likelihood of the utilization of results are priority factors. Surveys need to be well timed to feed into the programme cycle (planning or review stage). Quality and capacity of data systems are also important for supporting the implementation of a survey. The size of the programme may not be a primary determining factor since the aim is to improve all programmes, but this factor may play a role in the decision. Surveys need to be in-depth enough to yield detailed and new findings on the bottlenecks and barriers. It is especially important that a survey adds value to prompt action and improvement, even if some challenges exist such as those related to capacity, budget or political