risk in a given individual context? Research is needed to investigate how to achieve this in programmes in resource limited settings. 40. Review current experiences on the safety, effectiveness and tolerance of RUF in MAM infants under six months. 41. The impact of support to IYCF in CMAM. 42. Review breastfeeding assessment tools in field settings for individual level assessment. Sources: • WHO, Geneva HQ, Third Nutrition Guidance Expert Advisory Group meeting of the Subgroup of Nutrition in the Life Course and Undernutrition Area Acute Malnutrition, 13 February 2012. Meeting report • Conference on government experiences of community-based management of acute malnutrition, scaling up nutrition. Addis Ababa, 14-17 November, conference report ENN 2012a229 • ‘Management of Acute malnutrition in infants (MAMI): Current evidence, policies, practices and programme outcomes (ENN/CIHD/ACF 2010) MAM Treatment 21. Define response to treatment of children admitted on MUAC and clarify discharge percentage weight gain. 22. Document duration of treatment and duration of MAM episode from various contexts. 23. Clarify spontaneous recovery of MAM cases from available datasets. 24. Continue defining nutritional requirements of MAM cases. 25. Define appetite test for MAM cases. 26. Define nutritional, microbiological, chemical and other specifications for foods aimed at treating MAM. 27. Measure effectiveness (outcomes, impact, coverage etc.) and efficacy (physiological, clinical etc.) of new products filling MAM specifications in various contexts. 28. Measure effectiveness of ‘non food’ approaches in preventing and treating MAM in contexts where MAM determinants are not food related. 29. What is the most effective way to target cash transfer programmes in order to have an impact on MAM? Cash transfer programmes 229 ENN, 2011, ‘Conference on government experiences of scaling up the Community-based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) and lessons for the Scaling Up (SUN) movement,’ http:// www.ennonline.net/ourwork/ennmeetings/cmamconference2011 ANNEX H 107 partners including the Latin American Nutrition Network, Regional Centre for Quality of Health Care in Africa and the paediatric association of Tanzania. One of its aims is to publish and disseminate findings and experiences related to the management of acute malnutrition. 4. ENN: The ENN technical resource library232. ENN was set up in 1996 by a group of international humanitarian agencies to accelerate learning and strengthen institutional memory in the emergency food and nutrition sector. It aims to improve effectiveness of emergency food and nutrition interventions through identification and dissemination of lessons learnt in the course of operational practice and through research and evaluation. 5.