majority (65 percent) households, as a primary source of income, are mainly dependant on the unsustainable livelihood strategies14. Around 47 percent of the households have contracted some form of loan in the past 6 months, mainly for ‘food needs’ followed by ‘Health/medical’ expenses. Agricultural activities in Merged Areas are somehow limited except Bajaur and few areas in the rest of the Merged Areas of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. While some households hold agricultural lands, overall, about 46 percent of the households reported having ‘no agriculture land’ and about 59 percent households reported that they were not cultivating land. About 43 percent of the households own up to two acres of agricultural land, while 11 percent own more than two acres of land. Of the total population who cultivate land, about 88 percent cultivate their own land. 8 Households that are consuming staples and vegetables every day, accompanied by oil and pulses a few times a week 9 A proxy for household food security, based on the seven days recall period 10 A method developed by Food and Nutrition Technical Assistance (FANTA) based on perceptions of food insecurity by households if experienced problems in food access during the preceding 30 days 11 Such as selling productive assets, directly reduce future productivity, which includes human capital formation. 12 Such as selling one's land, affect future productivity, but are more difficult to reverse or more dramatic in nature than crisis strategies 13 Children of 5 to 16 years of age 14 Casual labour (agriculture and non-agriculture) Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 3 !. Ç P U N J A B B A L O C H I S T A N A F G H A N I S T A N K H Y B E R P A K H T U N K H W A SOUTH WAZIRISTAN LAKKI MARWAT TSD D.I.KHAN TSD BANNU TSD PESHAWAR TSD KOHAT TSD BA JAUR NORTH WAZIRISTAN TANK TSD KHYBER KURRAM ORAKZAI MOHMAND Peshawar Khyber Pa khtunk hwa cov e re d u nde r CF SLA 2 01 9 -2 0 20 Map showing Merged Districts and Tribal Sub-Divisions The boundaries, names and the designations used on this map do not imply official endorsementor acceptance by the United Nations. Dotted line represents approximately the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir agreed upon by India and Pakistan.