increases transparency and community support for service delivery. • MUAC is simple to use. A MUAC tape can be used by one person and is easily transportable. It can fit into a pocket. It also does not require literacy, numeracy, or additional equipment. This makes it easy to use at the community level, increasing the likelihood of early identification and presentation. However, simple training is needed to ensure correct use of the MUAC tape. Slide 37: Note that: • MUAC is used for identification of acute malnutrition during screening at the community level admission and discharge from treatment at the health facility. Using MUAC alone for admission means that all children who are referred by CHWs and who come to outpatient care would be admitted and therefore would not be rejected if they do not meet the weight-for-height (WFH) criteria for admission. • Using MUAC alone as an independent criterion for identification, admission, and discharge for treatment of SAM is recommended by WHO. • There is recent emerging evidence on the use of MUAC to identify nutritionally vulnerable in infants under 6 months. However, a classification cutoff for this age group has not yet been established. Countries and programmes are encouraged to collect MUAC data for infants under 6 months to help build the evidence base for cutoffs and case management. DEMONSTRATION: FAMILIARISATION WITH MUAC TAPES. Distribute coloured MUAC tapes and briefly show how they are used. Allow participants to familiarise themselves with them. Refer participants to Handout 1.6 Screening, Admission, and Discharge Using MUAC and review the categorisation by colour and what they mean. Answer any questions. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 22 Module 1 Learning Objective 4: Identify the Components of CMAM and How They Work Together TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 1.7 CMAM Components and How They Work Together. POWERPOINT: CMAM COMPONENTS (Show slides 39–51). Review the four components of CMAM (below) and refer participants to Handout 1.7 CMAM Components and How They Work Together for future reference. 1. Community outreach 2. Outpatient care for SAM without medical complications 3. Inpatient care for SAM with medical complications 4. Programmes for MAM (e.g., SFPs, depending on the context) POWERPOINT: HOW THE COMPONENTS OF CMAM WORK TOGETHER (Show slides 52–53.) Slide 52: Point out each of the components and ask participants why the circles are of different sizes. Explain that: • If community