of CMAM 15 minutes Handout 1.7 CMAM Components and How They Work Together Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 13 and How They Work Together PowerPoint: Overview of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) 5. Explore How CMAM Can Be Implemented in Different Contexts 15 minutes Handout 1.8 Case Studies Handout 1.9 Implementing CMAM in Different Contexts Handout 1.10 Factors to Consider in Seeking to Provide Services for the Management of SAM Handout 1.11 Integrating CMAM into Routine Health Services at the District Level PowerPoint: Overview of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) 6. Identify Key National and Global Developments and Commitments Relating to CMAM 10 minutes 2007 joint statement on community-based management of severe acute malnutrition by WHO, WFP, the UN/SCN, and UNICEF PowerPoint: Overview of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM)also see Handout 1.14 PowerPoint Presentation Slide Images. Wrap-Up and Module Evaluation 5 minutes Handout 1.12 Essentials of CMAM Field Visit to Outpatient Care Site 1 day Handout 1.13 Field Visit Checklist Module Duration: 1½ hours in classroom followed by a one-day site visit Note: Depending on the needs of their audience(s), trainers may choose to skip or spend more or less time on certain learning objectives and activities. The module duration is an estimate of the time it takes to complete all learning objectives and activities. Materials • Computer and projector for PowerPoint: Overview of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) • Sticky notes or coloured cards • Flip chart and markers • Masking tape • RUTF packets • Coloured MUAC tapes • World Health Organisation (WHO), World Food Programme (WFP), the United Nations System Standing Committee on Nutrition (UN/SCN), and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). 2007. Community-Based Management of Severe Acute Malnutrition: A Joint Statement. https://www.unicef.org/publications/files/Community_Based_Management_of_Sever_Acute__Maln utirtion.pdf. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 14 Advance Preparation • Room setup, materials noted above • Review and, if necessary, adapt “Overview of CMAM” PowerPoint presentation (this may include removing, adding, or reorganising slides). Review all participant handouts. • Optional: Arrange for a guest speaker(s) to discuss the design and planning of a CMAM intervention. The speaker should preferably be someone from the Ministry of Health (MOH) (regional or district level) who has experience in planning and setting up CMAM services. The speaker can also be someone from a nongovernmental organisation (NGO) who has worked closely with the