Simplified Lot Quality Assurance Sampling Evaluation of Access and Coverage (SLEAC) (a lower cost classification-based development of CSAS) and the Semi-Quantitative Evaluation of Access 106 Myatt, M., et al., 2005, “A field trial of a survey method for estimating the coverage of selective feeding programs,” http:// www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/83/1/20.pdf. 107 Guevarra, E., et al., ‘Assessment of Coverage of Communitybased Management of Acute Malnutrition, CMAM Forum July 2012 Technical Brief, Version 2: September 2014’, http://www. coverage-monitoring.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/10/Coverageand-CMAM-2012-v2-sept2014.pdf. their coverage and quality. The MBB tool aims to estimate the potential impact, resource needs, costs and budgeting implications of country strategies to remove implementation constraints of the health system. The tool estimates the marginal/incremental resources required to overcome those constraints and achieve better results and relates these resources to the country’s macroeconomic framework. The MBB is intended to help formulate medium-term national or provincial expenditure plans and poverty reduction strategies that explicitly link expenditure to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) related to health and nutrition. The UNICEF Advocacy Toolkit is a resource for building a structured approach for sustained advocacy. The Advocacy Toolkit provides a broadly accepted definition of advocacy and underscores UNICEF’s unique position and experience in advocacy. The heart of the Toolkit provides detailed steps, guidance and tools for developing and implementing an advocacy strategy. The Toolkit also outlines eight foundational areas that can help strengthen an office’s capacity for advocacy, and covers several crosscutting aspects of advocacy including monitoring and evaluating advocacy, managing knowledge in advocacy, managing risks in advocacy, building relationships and securing partnerships for advocacy, and working with children and young people in advocacy. Special focuses examine a variety of specific topics, including human rights and equity approaches to advocacy, theories of change, and conducting advocacy in humanitarian situations. Coverage monitoring Parallel to the development of the community-based approach to management of SAM has been the development of innovative methods to directly assess coverage (see box 33 for definitions). As the objective of SAM management is to reach the majority of children in need, treatment/contact coverage (the proportion of those eligible for treatment who are actually receiving treatment) SAM MANAGEMENT: INFORMATION FOR PROGRAMMING 59 special focus on coverage assessment in Field Exchange Issue 42108. These methods now offer the possibility to directly assess treatment coverage of the population in need at the district, regional and even national level; to show spatial distributions of coverage and to identify the main barriers to