child mortality (Bhutta et al. 200851). 50 Collins, S. et al., 2006, “Management of severe acute malnutrition,” The Lancet 368: 1992-2000. www.chnri.org/resources/4.%20 Research%20Articles/Nutrition/management%20of%20acute%20 malnutrition.pdf. 51 Bhutta, Z. et al., 2008, “Maternal and Child Undernutrition 3: What works? Interventions for maternal and child undernutrition and survival,” The Lancet, http://www.who.int/nutrition/topics/ Lancetseries_Undernutrition3.pdf. Definitions: Commonly Used Terms Chronic malnutrition (stunting). Chronic malnutrition, also known as stunting, is a form of growth failure which develops over a long period of time. Inadequate nutrition over long periods of time (including poor maternal nutrition and poor infant and young child feeding practices) and/or repeated infections can lead to stunting. In children, it can be identified using the height-for-age nutritional index. Acute malnutrition (wasting). Also known as wasting, acute malnutrition is characterized by a rapid deterioration in nutritional status over a short period of time. In children, it can be identified using the weight-forheight nutritional index or with mid-upper-arm circumference, or identified based on the presence of bilateral pitting oedema. There are different levels of severity of acute malnutrition: moderate acute malnutrition (MAM) and severe acute malnutrition (SAM). Undernutrition. The outcome of insufficient food intake and/or inadequate absorption of nutrients, inadequate feeding and care and infectious illness. Undernutrition includes being underweight, stunted, acutely malnourished or deficient in vitamins and minerals. Underweight. A composite form of undernutrition that includes elements of both wasting and stunting or a combination of both. In children, it can be identified using the weight-for-age nutritional index. Severe acute malnutrition (SAM). Defined in children 6–59 months old as weight-for-height z-score* of <-3 standard deviations of the WHO standards and/or bilateral pitting oedema and/or MUAC <11.5cm Moderate acute malnutrition (MAM). Defined in children 6–59 months old as weight-for-height z-score <-2 and ≥ -3 standard deviations of the WHO standards and/or MUAC <12.5cm and ≥ 11.5cm Community-based management of acute malnutrition (CMAM). An approach that includes community engagement and mobilization for early detection and referral of cases of acute malnutrition; outpatient management of SAM for children 6–59 months without medical complications; inpatient management of SAM for children 6–59 months with medical complications,** and in some cases management of MAM for children 6–59 months. Where management of MAM is not included the term CMAM has been used to describe the approach. The approach may also be called community-based therapeutic care in some contexts. Integrated management of acute malnutrition (IMAM). Another specific term used in some contexts for CMAM