and reliable picture of the global situation for key stakeholders, including donors and governments, to increase political will and commitment to longer term investment • Identify the support required to countries to improve quality and impact of programming • Facilitate capacity development of UNICEF staff for implementation and scale-up of SAM management • Assist in planning for technical, supply and financial resources • Assist in coordinating and harmonizing data • Provide a common global voice capable of advocating on the scale of the problem and unmet need • Increase accountability to beneficiaries, communities and governments. For more information on the tool and a report on 2011 SAM programming see ’UNICEF Global reporting update: SAM treatment in UNICEF supported countries’, p. 37 in Field Exchange issue 43, July 2012, Emergency Nutrition Network. For results from 2012 programming see www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/Global-SAM-Management-Update-2013.pdf BOX 34 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 62 joint statement (see MUAC Tapes121 technical bulletin) to allow countries to order according to whether or not they were adopting the newly recommended cut-offs. RUTF supply chain and forecasting RUTF is a heavy, bulky, high-value product, and programmes need an uninterrupted supply of it to function effectively. A 2009 review of the supply chain for RUTF in the Horn of Africa (Duke University 2009122) identified areas for improvement, reflecting desired increases in scale, and suggested indicators for monitoring performance (see box 35). A tool for conducting supply chain analysis developed by this project is available (see annex E). Some key developments as a result of the review are outlined below: • Pre-positioning of buffer stocks: To reduce transportation lead times, RUTF stock is now prepositioned in areas closer to emergency prone countries (Cameroon and Ghana for the Sahel region, for example). Pre-positioning stock in Dubai, Johannesburg or Mombasa for the Horn of Africa, remains a priority. • Improved forecasting of RUTF need: In 2009, the Supply Division, headquarters and regional offices developed a Nutrition supplies forecasting tool123 to help countries project their yearly requirements of therapeutic supplies. The goal was to improve both country-level and global planning for supplies. The tool has undergone various improvements. It now (a) allows forecasting at subnational as well as national levels; (b) adds contingency emergency stocks based on predicted 121 UNICEF Technical bulletin No. 13 revision 2 Mid Upper Arm Circumference (MUAC) Measuring Tapes, http://www.unicef.org/ supply/files/Mid_Upper_Arm_Circumference_Measuring_Tapes. pdf 122 Duke University, 2009, ‘A Supply Chain Analysis of Ready-To-UseTherapeutic Foods for