participants. • Provide sufficient time for transportation to and from field sites. • Schedule time for debriefing and discussion of field visits. • Be aware of the schedules of the sites you are visiting. For example, if outpatient care is available only in the morning, those field visits should be conducted in the morning. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 4 • Schedule time on the first and last days for formal opening and closing of the overall training, as necessary and appropriate. Training Tasks and Responsibilities: Key Points for Preparation and Planning Before Training It is necessary to plan for optimal outcomes well before the training. The following checklist outlines some essential tasks and responsibilities. The list should be adapted for the specific needs of a given training. Trainers/facilitators and key stakeholders in the participants’ organisations should decide who is responsible for each task. 1. Setting the Objectives and Expectations of the Training • Identify and collaborate with appropriate organisations and partners. • Trainers/facilitators and organisations together identify the desired goals and objectives. • Commit resources. • Develop a training strategy to achieve the results, including refresher trainings and follow-up. • Establish and commit to a system of supervision/mentoring. 2. Participant Selection • Establish participant selection criteria. • Know the audience (number and type of participants, e.g., MOH, NGO, doctors, nurses, auxiliaries, CHWs, health care managers, health care providers). • Inform participants of the purpose of the training and clarify their roles and responsibilities after training (i.e., clear job expectations). • Ask participants to bring relevant materials to share: o Nutrition surveys according to district/region o Information on health, nutrition and undernutrition preventive and curative services in their communities and countries o Information on the context of their health system: How it works, whether it is centralised or de-centralised, who operates in key areas (e.g., NGO, MOH) 3. Understanding the Participants’ Context: Mini-Situation Analysis • Identify the problem in participants’ settings: o Emergency/development o Urban/rural o Seasonal challenges • Identify national guidelines for the management of SAM and MAM. • Research nutrition surveys according to district/region. • Investigate health, nutrition and undernutrition preventive and curative services in participants’ communities and countries. • Describe the context of participants’ health systems: how they work, whether they are centralised or de-centralised, who operates in key areas (e.g., NGO or MOH). Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute