materials for management of SAM, including training materials and strategies • Providing technical oversight, analysis of bottlenecks and troubleshooting for implementation • Advocacy/lobbying for inclusion of CMAM in relevant health, nutrition and development policy and in government and donor budgets • Monitoring and reporting on scale-up progress • Linking closely with regional (and district) coordination mechanisms to share information and to supervise and monitor implementation • Subnational structures: The decentralized nature of management of SAM means that coordination must be addressed at the regional and district levels, again through existing mechanisms where possible. It also means that vertical coordination between these levels must be strengthened. This coordination is likely to be performed within existing mechanisms, led by regional and district health offices. As noted above, in some cases it may be possible to set up technical working groups for management of SAM at regional and district level, with support and periodic participation by the national level to decentralize some of the working group functions. This type of structure has been found to improve monitoring and quality assurance. Determine available resources It is important to include all stakeholders, including donors, when discussing available resources and potential funding sources and mechanisms. Broad based inclusion will help ensure that realistic plans are developed, based policy agendas, or protocols that have wide scale buy-in and endorsement, depending on the TOR of the technical working group. Such groups may also be dynamic enough to provide technical support for capacity-building, supervision and reporting. They may be set up just on the national level or also at the regional and district level (e.g., Ghana) depending on needs and capacities. Points for inclusion in national technical working group TORs include: • Building of consensus among stakeholders for management of SAM “Guidance Point” Coordination Mechanisms” In many countries, the MoH plays the lead role in national coordination of SAM management. In some countries, like Malawi, nutrition is coordinated under the Office of the President. In such cases it may be easier to raise the issue of management of SAM on the national agenda and to maintain the multisectoral team and approach required for management not just of SAM but of all nutrition programmes that reach beyond the health system. However, when nutrition coordination cuts across ministries, there can be challenges, such as unclear accountabilities, resulting in fragmentation of the approach at the field level. In a balanced approach it