on SAM prevalence. It therefore serves to sharpen programme focus on disaster risk reduction and local capacity development as explicit strategies for the long term, contributing to resilience of communities and health systems in the face of multiple shocks. The increased decentralization of programmes for management of SAM to the health clinic/ health centre level as part of national scale-up is in line with UNICEF’s disaster risk reduction (DRR) programme guidance note21. Scale-up provides additional treatment capacity, catching children with SAM earlier in the progression of the disease and treating them closer to home. Earlier identification and initiation of treatment helps to reduce both the vulnerability of children to additional shocks and the vulnerability of families caring for those children. It also enables these families to continue with their livelihood and coping strategies while their children receive treatment, thus protecting community resilience. This approach is also in line with UNICEF’s approach to humanitarian action22. 21 UNICEF, 2011, ‘Disaster Risk Reduction Programme Guidance Note,’ https://intranet.unicef.org/Emops/EMOPSSite.nsf/root/ Page0502. 22 UNICEF 2011, ‘UNICEF’s Approach to Humanitarian Action,’ https://intranet.unicef.org/pd/pdc.nsf/e59d3405e8ee2cb 9852567460068fae4/f417f9d4a4d33d7a85257a7e004da073?Open Document. • Supporting smallholder farmers to produce quality crops of peanuts for a guaranteed market and price, for local production of RUTF, thus ensuring quality and reliable supply There has also been little documentation of experience in linking management of SAM with social protection schemes, such as cash grants, vouchers and productive safety net initiatives targeting the poorest and most food-insecure households. There may be potential for health staff to refer families for participation in such initiatives or for community-level identification of SAM to link to activities that form part of these initiatives. This is an area for future development. Consider emergencies and contingency planning Emergencies can drive scale-up by providing additional funds and involving other stakeholders. However, these benefits may also cause problems. Emergency funds are usually short term and unpredictable, starting and stopping periodically. An emergency-based approach can hinder progress by undermining government ownership, complicating coordination, creating parallel programming and putting in place inappropriately resource-intensive solutions to implementation issues such as monetary incentives for volunteers and complicated reporting systems. UNICEF can play a role in mediating these issues by supporting strong government coordination and the promotion/ enforcement of the use of standard guidelines and protocols as well as integrated and harmonized approaches that will continue to strengthen existing systems (see page 21). To address the issues associated with stop/start funding, an alternative framework20