lifesaving treatment. A GOVERNMENTAL INVESTMENT, SUPPORTED BY UN AGENCIES The Nashonuma Programme is managed by the Government of Pakistan under the Benazir Income Support Programme (BISP). The World Food Programme (WFP), in close partnerships with Health Departments, supports the management of the 542 Facilitation Centers and the procurement and distributions of specialized nutritious food (Maamta and Wawamum) to prevent stunting. The centres also screen for, and manage, acutely malnourished children and women. Severe cases with medical complications, and infants under 6 months, are referred to one of the 169 nutrition stabilization centres supported by the World Health Organization (WHO). UNICEF, the United Nations agency for children, provides Ready-to-Use Therapeutic Food (RUTF) for the treatment of severe acute malnutrition, and manage Social Behaviour Change Communication. The UN agencies objective is to support the federal and provincial governments in the operationalisation, assurances and evidence generation, while contributing to reinforce the sustainability of the investment. DELIVERING MEASURABLE IMPACT The Institute for Global Health & Development at Aga Khan University (AKU) is conducting an Independent Impact Evaluation of the Nashonuma Programme, funded by Gates Foundation. In September 2025, AKU shared the Midterm results of the evaluation – which showed that Nashonuma is delivering some of the strongest results ever documented globally for a nutrition programme, with measurable impact on stunting reduction and child survival. The study found a 6.4 percentage points lower prevalence of stunting among children under 2 who participated in Nashonuma. Similarly, in intervention districts, the prevalence of low birth weight declined by 5.6 percentage points compared to non-intervention districts. Equally remarkable, the prevalence of stunting at 6 months of age was 20 percent lower among beneficiaries, and the number of small vulnerable newborn births was more than 7 percentage points lower, an unprecedented early gain, also very important for child survival. The study also documented improvements in early initiation of breastfeeding, immunization coverage and antenatal care visits. 20% Stunting prevalence among children at 6 months of age is 20 percent lower among Nashonuma beneficiaries 6.4% Stunting among children under 2 was 6.4 percentage points lower among beneficiaries compared to non-beneficiaries The prevalence of low birth weight declined by 5.6 percentage points compared to nonintervention districts Aga Khan University (AKU) Midterm results of Nashonuma Programme’s evaluation 5.6%