and assign these roles: an outpatient care nurse, a CHW and a community volunteer involved in community outreach for CMAM, two mothers, a father, a grandmother of children under treatment in CMAM, a community elder and a traditional healer. Exercise 8.3 Community Meeting Role-Play (below) describes the roles. Give each volunteer a card describing her/his role (prepared in advance) and ask them to start the “community meeting.” Tell them that roles can be adapted and they should feel free to improvise. After 20 minutes, ask participants how they would use what they learned from the community meeting to make changes to the services. Refer to Exercise 8.3 Answer Key at the end of this learning objective to guide the discussion. Exercise 8.3 Community Meeting Role-Play Outpatient Care Nurse: You are a nurse at the health facility in charge of outpatient care and ask the CHWs to explore the issues that lead to high default and death rates. You also take an active role in reviewing outpatient care treatment cards and monitoring reports to identify possible causes for poor performance. CHW: You note that the people in your community refuse to go to the hospital for inpatient care for several reasons: They do not like the hospital; they are afraid they will have to pay for the services; they have no transportation or cannot cover the costs; or they do not want to leave their other children. Refusal to go to the hospital is why several children have died. Community Volunteer: You are a very active volunteer. There are many defaulters in your area because it is in a part of the district that is farthest from the outpatient care site. You think that either an outpatient care site closer to your community is needed or that people from your area should be able to Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 152 come to the existing site every two weeks instead of every week. Because there is no other health facility in your area, you wonder if a nurse can use the health facility motorbike and bring the RUTF directly to your area. There also are some issues with referrals using bilateral pitting oedema and the MUAC tape. Sometimes you send a child because she/he has bilateral pitting oedema or the MUAC reading is red, but the nurse makes a different decision and sends the child