these benefits, such as facilitation of cross-sectoral work and greater mobilization of political will and thus resources for nutrition initiatives. (Some of the global initiatives described in page 45 may help to raise the institutional position of nutrition in a country.) • Pilot approaches: Widely share the results of pilot approaches (e.g. efforts by NGOs) that show the striking results achievable in terms of recovery and coverage. These studies can be useful to inform the adaptation of the approach to the country context. • Champions: Use nutrition champions from different levels (e.g., from the regional level where experience with the approach is strongest or the national level where influence may be greater) to influence agendas. This has been identified as a key to the success of management of SAM in Ethiopia. Note: A special issue on management of SAM was published in the Indian Paediatrics, August 2010, Volume 47; Number 8, http://www.indianpediatrics.net/aug2010/current.htm. On SAM in Ethiopia, see E. Mates, ‘Integrating OTP into routine health services: Concern’s experiences’, Field Exchange 40, 2011, www.ennonline.net/fex/40/integrating. BOX 17 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 32 Common financing bottlenecks include: • Reliance on short-term funding • Donor incompatibilities between support for emergency responses versus support for longterm development with respect to supporting management of SAM • Insufficient government resources for management of SAM at national and subnational levels • Missed opportunities to mobilize funds through links with (or as a component of) other interventions. UNICEF directs large scale resources towards supporting SAM management, particularly in terms of procurement of therapeutic supplies. In many countries it has long been the main supplier of therapeutic milk and support for inpatient care; as coverage of cases was extremely low, these costs were also relatively low. With CMAM and the volume of RUTF required, the funding implications are considerably larger. However, UNICEF is in a good position to advocate with donors for longer term funding, to pursue longterm rather than short-term funds, and with governments for increased allocation of domestic funds. This advocacy can be facilitated in a number of ways (see box 18). Coordination mechanisms Issues of political and policy-level commitment to management of SAM and the strength of coordination mechanisms may need to be addressed before developing operational scale-up plans (see page 21 and 30 for more guidance in these areas). Common bottlenecks include: • Lack of central operational plans for scale-up • Lack of cross-sectoral buy-in or participation