FOR PROGRAMMING 59 special focus on coverage assessment in Field Exchange Issue 42108. These methods now offer the possibility to directly assess treatment coverage of the population in need at the district, regional and even national level; to show spatial distributions of coverage and to identify the main barriers to coverage. They include models that can be undertaken without extensive resources. Even though these methods are being used more widely, UNICEF is now exploring the use 108 ENN, 2012, Field Exchange (42), http://www.ennonline.net/fex/42. and Coverage (SQUEAC)a semi-quantitative approach concentrating on detailed investigations of factors influencing coverage). The need to assess coverage of national programmes is being met by adaptations of the SLEAC method and a Simple Spatial Survey Method (S3M), an adaptation of the CSAS method that uses improved spatial sampling and uses data more effectively. These methods are outlined in more detail in annex C, which provides guidance on which method to use in which context along with resource requirements. Country experiences in applying these methods are also described in a Definitions: Coverage Treatment coverage: The proportion of all people needing or eligible to receive a service who actually receive that service. This can be either directly or indirectly estimated (see below) and can also be known as contact coverage. Spatial coverage: The pattern of treatment coverage measured using a direct coverage method over the entire programme area. Spatial coverage should not be confused with geographical coverage. Geographical coverage: There are two working definitions of geographical coverage. The first is the ratio of administrative units (e.g., districts) delivering treatment for SAM to the total number of districts in that programme area. The second is the ratio of health care facilities in an area (i.e., country) delivering treatment for SAM to the total number of health care facilities in that area. In its Global SAM Management Update for 2012, UNICEF used this second working definition. Geographical coverage is a proxy estimate of treatment coverage and can be interpreted as the maximum coverage a programme can achieve also referred to as potential or availability coverage). See annex A for how to estimate. Direct treatment coverage estimate: An estimate of treatment coverage made by finding cases and ascertaining whether they are in a suitable treatment programme. This can be done using the assessment/investigation techniques detailed in annex C (CSAS, S3M, SLEAC, and SQUEAC are direct methods). Indirect treatment coverage estimate: An estimate