treated according to the protocol for the management of severe acute malnutrition. Those that fail to respond to this treatment should be referred for further medical investigation. Care should be taken in prescribing drugs to severely malnourished children. They have abnormal kidney and liver function and changed levels of enzymes necessary to metabolize and excrete drugs. Drugs for HIV and TB can damage the liver and pancreas. Therefore nutritional treatment should occur first and the administration of these drugs delayed until metabolism has returned to normal. xxviii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women STEP 7: Start nutritional treatment with F75 Most of the severely acutely malnourished children who fulfill the criteria for in-patient care have infections, impaired liver and intestinal function, and problems related to imbalance of electrolytes when first enrolled. They are unable to tolerate the usual amounts of dietary protein, fat and sodium. It is important to begin feeding these children with a diet that is low in these nutrients. ▪ F75 therapeutic milk is a product that has been especially designed for use with the treatment of complicated cases of severe acute malnutrition. Energy density of F75 is 75kcal/100ml (this is equivalent to 100kcal/bodyweight/day) ▪ F75 is given at regular intervals throughout the day (135ml/kg/day). Depending on the capacity of the inpatient facility, this should be eight times a day at three hour intervals over 24 hours or five to six feeds at regular intervals throughout the day. ▪ Amounts of F75 to give are shown in Annex 20. ▪ Use pre-packaged commercially available F75 whenever possible. Where this is not available, F75 can be prepared locally. Recipe for locally prepared F75 can be found in Annex 22. ▪ If the child is breastfed, encourage the mother to continue breastfeeding. Breastfed children should be offered breast-milk before giving F75 and always on demand. ▪ Treatment using F75 usually takes 2-3 days CAUTION: The routine use of IV fluids is strongly discouraged: IV fluids should only be used to resuscitate severely acutely malnourished children from hypovolaemic collapse (shock). IV fluids should only be used by a skilled health worker who is experienced in the care of severely malnourished children. Pediatric doses: Care should be taken in the calculation of weight related paediatric dosing of medications. Preparation of commercially prepared F75 ▪ Add one packet (410g) of F75