at health facilities and outreach programs ▪ Screening at community meetings, health campaigns in the community and at other opportunities ▪ Growth monitoring sessions, health facilities, paediatric wards It is important to include mothers and caretakers of children in the programme. Mothers/caretakers who have seen their malnourished children recover are very motivated and will encourage others to x National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women seek treatment. Some mothers/caretakers will emerge as leaders and can play an active role in case finding and in some cases in follow up. Children are identified as malnourished using MUAC and assessment for oedema. The criteria used are the same as the admission criteria for OTP and SFP. This should ensure that children referred by community providers are admitted to the programme. A simple referral slip is used (Annex 2). This should be done in duplicate copy so that one copy is given to the caretaker and the other is kept for the record. Finding Action 6-59m MUAC < 115mm (RED) Refer to OTP 6-59 months Bilateral pitting oedema Refer to OTP 6-59 months MUAC 115mm < 125mm (YELLOW) Refer to SFP (if available) Pregnant and lactating women MUAC <210mm Refer to SFP (if available) Infants < 6months* -Visibly wasted infants -Infants with oedema -Infants too weak or feeble to suckle Refer to OTP/health facility for evaluation * Low birth weight infants, premature infants and infants failing to thrive require an evaluation by a health care provider and should be referred to the health facility. Issues in identification and referral of malnourished children ▪ A key challenge is to ensure that community providers refer only those children who should be admitted. It is therefore essential that they are well trained to use MUAC and assess oedema. When children are referred from the community and then health care providers find that they do not meet the admission criteria, problems of rejection can result. If there are large numbers of children referred from the community to OTP or SFP who do not meet the admission criteria, this must be immediately addressed by training and discussion with community providers. ▪ In widely dispersed communities, volunteers may have to travel large distances to visit remote villages. This should be considered when developing an outreach strategy. A transport stipend may need to be included. ▪ In emergency situations or