Areas come from the Population and Housing Census 2017 by the Government of Pakistan and from the 2017 Vulnerability Assessment conducted by Govt. of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and UNOCHA. ,Therefore, food security profiling of the Households, understanding the nature of food insecurity, its main causes and consequences required fresh evidence. To fill-in the data gap, the Comprehensive Food Security & Livelihood Assessment in Merged Districts (NMDs) and Tribal Sub-Divisions was initiated by the WFP under the overall leadership of the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in July 2019. The idea is to have evidence-based and actionable recommendations on improving food security and livelihoods of the people in the Merged Areas. The Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (PBS) provided sample based on the Population and Housing Census 2017. This task was facilitated through an MoU signed between the Planning & Development Department Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the Statistics Division, Islamabad. The Institute of Management Studies (IMS) University of Peshawar was engaged by WFP through a Letter of Agreement (LOA), to facilitate BOS Merged Areas in the data collection process. As part of this assessment 3,630 households were interviewed, located in 363 primary sampling units3 drawn by the Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (PBS). In addition, 363 Focus Group Discussion (FGD) with community members were also carried out. CFSLA also includes a Rapid Market Appraisal of all the local markets from all seven (7) Districts and six (6) tribal subdivisions of Merged Areas. The survey tools employed as part of the CFSLA covered all major food security related indicators on agriculture, livelihood, income, expenditure, food consumption, coping strategies and water and sanitation etc. Two globally accepted analytical approaches have been used to establish the prevalence of food insecurity at the household level. First, WFP’s Consolidated Approach to Reporting on Indicators of food security (CARI) is applied for the food security outcome analysis. CARI composites two important dimensions of households’ food security, namely, food consumption and coping capacity. Secondly the , Food Insecurity Experience Scale (FIES) (SDG indicator 2.1.2) – has also been used to assess prevalence of moderate to severe and severe food insecurity. The FIES is an experience-based food security measurement scale, composed of eight questions asking to report on the occurrence of experiences and conditions that are typically associated with food insecurity. Overall both the analytical tools showed more or less the same proportion of households as food insecure in the Merged Areas. According to