785US$/7.8=38 US$/person/percentage point. The cross-sectional study observed 6.4 percentage points less stunting among enrolled children aged 6-23 month. Duration of program enrolment of these children, including the participation of their mother, differed and they had not yet reached 24 months of age. Assuming enrolment from 4th month of gestation and until, on average, 18 months of age, would be a total of 23 months of programme exposure. This is equivalent to an investment of 23/29 months x 785 US$ /6.4 = 97 US$/person/percentage point. 10 BENAZIR NASHONUMA PROGRAMME Midline Evaluation Results METHODOLOGY OF AKU EVALUATION The AKU evaluation is funded by the Gates Foundation. Initiated in 2021, It has two components, a repeated cross-sectional survey of pregnant and breastfeeding women and children under five and a cohort followup from enrolment during the first two trimesters of pregnancy until the children have reached 12 months of age. All participants are BISP beneficiaries with one group enrolled in Nashonuma and one group not enrolled. The cross-sectional surveys sample from a total of 18 districts, 9 exposed, 9 non-exposed, that are paired per two, for nutrition and socio-economic characteristics, 4 each from Balochistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Sindh provinces and 2 each from Punjab, Gilgit-Baltistan and Pakistan Administered Kashmir. The cohort follow-up is conducted in the districts of Rajanpur in Punjab and Dadu in Sindh. The figure below shows that data collection for the first cross-sectional surveys started in December 2021 and that the third one, the endline, will be conducted in January-March 2026. Cohort enrolment started in March 2023 and most children will have reached 12 months of age by the end of 2025, when their last data will be collected, Thus far, midline data have been collected for both components. For the cross-sectional surveys, data are compared between intervention and non-intervention districts as well as within the intervention districts between Nashonuma and non-Nashonuma enrolled households. For the Nashonuma enrolled households, the history of Nashonuma participation, and baseline characteristics of participants in both groups and different geographies also vary. While the analysis can control for confounding characteristics to some extent, the cohort follow-up is comparatively better controlled. The cohorts’ participating pregnant women were sampled while in their first or second trimester. The Nashonuma cohort enrolled 2,263 pregnant women, while the non-Nashonuma cohort enrolled 4,452, because it was expected that many women might join the Nashonuma program during the period of followup. Data at