of MAM for children 6–59 months. Where management of MAM is not included the term CMAM has been used to describe the approach. The approach may also be called community-based therapeutic care in some contexts. Integrated management of acute malnutrition (IMAM). Another specific term used in some contexts for CMAM programmes that have a primary objective of integration within the existing health and community systems; used to emphasize this objective Note: *z-score: the number of standard deviations below or above the reference median value. ** infants under six months of age with acute malnutrition are also treated in inpatient care. BOX 28 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 44 by highly trained health care professionals.55 Developments in these protocols led to dramatic reductions in case fatality rates when administered in specialized units or by well-resourced NGOs during humanitarian operations. However this impact was not widespread and coverage of such interventions remained limited (Collins 200756). In 2001, a new approach was piloted in Ethiopia in an area where the opening of Therapeutic Feeding Centres was not permitted due to previous experiences of high mortality. In this approach, children with SAM who presented without major medical complications were treated for the first time on an outpatient basis through decentralized sites within a day’s walk of their homes. The approach involved engagement of communities in order to identify severely malnourished children early (defined as before their condition deteriorated to a stage where they required inpatient care for medical complications) and distribution of specially formulated RUTF and essential medicines on a weekly basis with simple orientation for caregivers. RUTF is a highly fortified oil-based paste made of peanuts, milk powder, oil, sugar, and vitamin/mineral powder developed in the 1990s by research scientist Andre Briend and Nutriset (a private company making nutritional products for humanitarian relief). It is equivalent in formulation to F 100 (milk formula recommended by WHO for the inpatient treatment of SAM). The approach proved to be effective and offered the potential to treat far greater numbers than ever before (Collins and Sadler 200257). By adding inpatient care for the referral and treatment of complicated cases of SAM (<10% of the caseload in programmes with effective case finding) and in some situations, 55 Contained in the WHO protocols 1999 (WHO 1999) and later updated as part of the WHO training package in 2002 (WHO 2002). 56 Collins, S., 2006, ‘Treating Severe Acute Malnutrition Seriously’,