added to this body of literature. At the end of 2011 an international workshop was convened in Ethiopia to share government experiences in scaled-up CMAM, with representation by 22 countries.72 Several points that emerged from the conference are important to highlight: • Scale-up requires time, commitment and dependable funding. Managing SAM nationally as part of standard health care packages requires time, political support, continuity of funding and consideration of how to support public health systems, which are often already struggling. • Successful models cannot be directly duplicated. Fitting management of SAM into existing structures and systems must take into account the structure of national health systems and country-specific needs related to treatment of SAM (for example in terms 67 FANTA and ENN, 2008, ‘International workshop on the integration of community-based management of acute malnutrition’, http://www. ennonline.net/ourwork/othermeetings/cmamintegration2008. 68 Grellety, Y., Hélène Schwartz and David Rizzi, 2010, ‘Management of Acute Malnutrition Programme Review and Evaluation’, http:// www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/WEST-AFRICA-REGIONALEvaluation-English-23nov-UNICEF-WCARO.pdf. 69 Deconinck, H., et al., 2011, ‘Review of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition Implementation in West Africa: Summary Report’, www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/WESTAFRICA-CMAM-Synthesis-Oct2011-FANTA.pdf. 70 ENN, 2012a, ‘Conference on government experiences of scaling up the Community-based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) and lessons for the Scaling Up (SUN) movement,’ http://www. ennonline.net/ourwork/ennmeetings/cmamconference2011. 71 UNICEF and WCAR, 2010, ‘Report of a Meeting to Harmonize the Criteria for Monitoring and Evaluation of the Treatment of Acute Malnutrition in West and Central Africa,’ http://www.cmamforum. org/Pool/Resources/Meeting-report-on-M-E-IMAM-West-and-CentralAfrica-Dakar-Golden-et-al-ENG-2010.pdf. 72 The countries presenting at the conference were Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, Niger, Pakistan, Sierra Leone and Somalia. The 12 additional participants were Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Liberia, Nepal, Nigeria, South Sudan, Republic of Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Definitions: Integrated health services and integrated management of SAM Integrated health services: • “The management and delivery of health services so that clients receive a continuum of preventive and curative services, according to their needs over time and across different levels of the health system” (WHO) • “The organization and management of health services so that people get the care they need, when they need it, in ways that are user-friendly, achieve the desired results and provide value for money” (WHO) Integrated management of SAM: • It is one of the basic health services to which a child has access. • It is embedded into a broader set of nutrition activities (IYCF, micronutrient supplementation, etc.). • It is integrated within a multisectoral approach to tackling the determinants of