the Merged Areas: • Average household size in the Merged Areas is 10.72 per household, which is significantly higher than other parts of the province. Therefore, large household size is one the characteristics observed in the food insecure households. • Majority of the households in the Merged Areas are dependent on the unsustainable income sources / livelihood strategies, which is yet another characteristic of the food insecure households. • The income level of the household in the Merged Areas is relatively low while the livelihood opportunities are also very limited; thus, households have serious economic issues in access to the available food. • The income dependency ratio in the Merged Areas is also relatively higher, which means more unemployed population are dependent on the less employed population. • Huge debts/loans burden is another characteristic of the food insecure households. Debt/loan is an immediate coping mechanism for most household to meet food and health related expenses. According to the findings about half (47%) households in the Merged Areas had contracted new loans at the time of the survey. • Major share of the household’s expenditure is being spent on households’ food related needs, leaving very little to meet health and other important needs. High food related expenditure is an economic vulnerability and making households more food insecure. • Education level in the Merged Areas is extremely low, about 76 percent of the population have no formal education. Therefore, low level literacy/education is another characteristic of the food insecure households. Food insecure households are resorting to several ‘crisis’ and ‘emergency’ coping strategies i.e. selling productive assets which directly reduces future productivity and includes human capital formation and selling land which affects future productivity but are more difficult to reverse or more dramatic in nature than crisis strategies. • The food consumption of the food insecure households is not only poor quantitatively but also less diversified, i.e. consuming very few food groups. • Households in the Merged Areas have relatively limited access to and availability of WASH facilities, especially access to improved drinking water, improved sanitation system and access to hygienic toilet (flush) facility. • According to the findings of the CFSLA, as such no or very limited assistance have been extended to the households in the Merged Districts since the last return. • Food production in Merged Areas is far below from its requirement, thus households have strong dependency on market purchases