36 packets) Example 2: Child 3 weighs 7.2 kg and will return to outpatient care next week. How many packets of your locally produced RUTF will you give the child? (Answer: 18 packets) When finished with practice, point out to the participants that there is ongoing research on the combined protocol for SAM and MAM treatment to test alternative treatment protocols by reducing the RUTF doses. Refer participants to the evidence from Sierra Leone, review, and answer questions. Details on the combined protocol for SAM and MAM treatment will be covered in Module 6: Management of MAM in the Context of CMAM. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 75 Module 4 Learning Objective 6: Describe the Key Messages for Mothers/Caregivers of Children 6–59 Months Used in Outpatient Care TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 4.12 Key Messages for Individual Counselling for Mothers/Caregivers of Children 6–59 Months. GROUP DISCUSSION: KEY MESSAGES FOR MOTHERS/CAREGIVERS. Explain to participants that outpatient care includes individual counselling, health and nutrition education, and behaviour change communication (BCC) at each session. The initial counselling session should focus only on a few key messages so that the mother/caregiver clearly understands the practices that are essential to managing SAM in a child. As the child’s condition improves, other messages should be given. In the initial counselling session, health care providers counsel the mother/caregiver with key messages on the following topics: 1. How to feed RUTF to the child 2. When and how to give the medicines to the child 3. When to return to outpatient care 4. Understanding danger signs and making sure the child is brought to the health facility immediately if his or her condition deteriorates WORKING GROUPS: DEVELOPING KEY MESSAGES FOR MOTHERS/CAREGIVERS. Ask working groups to write six key messages to give to the mother/caregiver during his/her initial session in outpatient care. Have one group present and the other groups add additional messages. Discuss, clarify, and fill in gaps. Also discuss what additional messages would be important in subsequent outpatient care follow-on sessions. ROLE-PLAY: INDIVIDUAL COUNSELLING. In working groups, have one participant act as a mother/caregiver who has come to outpatient care for the first time and another act as the CMAM counsellor; the rest of the working group’s participants should observe. Have the actors practice counselling with the most important key messages. Ask the observers for feedback. Have the mother/caregiver and counsellor