OF CONSOLIDATED SITE REPORTS. With participants in the same working groups, distribute Exercise 8.4 Analysis of the Site Reports of Three Outpatient Care Sites and One Inpatient Care Site and have participants discuss the reports within their groups. Using the site and consolidated reports, ask participants to think through any conclusions that can be drawn about the sites, performance and coverage issues, and what kind of follow-up information they would need to make appropriate decisions in response. You could suggest that they compare caseloads, common admission criteria, admission and referral patterns, and reasons for and rates of discharge among sites. If appropriate, give an example or two from Exercise 8.4 Discussion Key, below. Check in with each working group and, if their conversation is lagging, provide them with additional conclusions to determine the key questions to address. When groups have had time to discuss, ask one group to report a conclusion and what additional information is needed, in plenary. Ask another group to provide an additional conclusion, etc. Note to participants that specific discharge rates from the inpatient care site are not calculated. Infants and children who improve are referred to outpatient care to continue treatment. The specific discharge rates would not reflect poor quality as they include ONLY those children with SAM who had medical complications. This is one reason why the service/programme must be evaluated as a whole, combining information from both inpatient care and outpatient care as presented in the combined reporting sheet. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 155 Exercise 8.4 Analysis of the Site Reports of Three Outpatient Care Sites and One Inpatient Care Site (Discussion Key) Conclusions Drawn From Reports Questions or Possible Explanation to Verify 1. Health centre B has more patients than the other centres. 1. Is this normal? Does it cover a highly populated area or a very wide area? What are the walking distances to the centre? Is this centre manageable? Could a second centre be opened with existing resources? 2. At health centre C, more than half the admissions are from bilateral pitting oedema. 2. Is this normal? Are the other health centres neglecting this diagnosis? Or, the opposite—is there an over-diagnosis of bilateral pitting oedema here? Is this health centre in a different food economy area? Was the same observation made in previous months and in surveys? 3. Out of the overall 246