and shock 13. Vitamin A supplementation in the treatment of children with severe malnutrition 14. Admission and discharge criteria for the management of SAM in infants under six months (including research into the use of MUAC for infants) 15. Inpatient treatment of severe acute malnutrition in infants aged under six months (e.g., efficacy of supplemental suckling, best therapeutic milk options) 16. Development of generic tool for use at the community and facility level for assessment of breastfeeding 17. Practicality, effectiveness and safety of options for outpatient treatment of severe acute malnutrition in infants aged under six months 18. Screening for acute malnutrition in children under six months of age 19. Discharge criteria for acute malnutrition in children under six months of age (percentage weight gain, MUAC, fixed length of stay, etc.) 20. Further efficacy testing of local therapeutic diets UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 106 may be a part of poverty reduction, social protection programmes or emergency responses. 30. What specific types of cash transfer programmes contribute to food and nutritional status in children under five years? 31. What is the most effective approach to monitor the impact of cash impact on the nutritional status of children under five years? HIV 32. Do HIV+ MAM children need a different food to recover from MAM compared with HIV– MAM children? 33. Do HIV+ mothers need a different food to recover from MAM compared with HIV– mothers? 34. What would be the ideal timing of starting ARVs in HIV+ infected children with MAM (and SAM) in the absence of other signs requiring ARV treatment? 35. Could the identification and treatment of diarrhoea pathogens on admission improve treatment of MAM in HIV+ children (faster recovery, higher weight gain etc.)? 36. Develop and pilot the use of linear programming in the formulation of dietary recommendations for moderately wasted children. Infants 37. Do anthropometric criteria for MAM in children over six months apply equally to infants under six months? 38. How should infants under 67cm but under six months be managed? 39. For infants with no access to breast milk, what feeding option poses the least risk in a given individual context? Research is needed to investigate how to achieve this in programmes in resource limited settings. 40. Review current experiences on the safety, effectiveness and tolerance of RUF in MAM infants under six months. 41. The impact of support to IYCF in CMAM. 42. Review