to admit him/her. At first, you are not planning to show him/her your sick child. Nutrition Volunteer (male or female): You are trained to perform MUAC measurements on children by going house to house. Your work area covers four communities, including your own. You have limited formal schooling, but you are clever and are respected by people in your community who know you, even though you are young. While you are fairly confident of your ability to measure MUAC, you have not yet attended an outpatient care day because of the distance to the health post, so you are uncertain about what happens to the children you refer there. In this encounter, you are starting at a disadvantage: several months ago, you asked mothers/caregivers from your communities to gather their children in one spot for vaccination, but the vaccines did not arrive on time, leaving the mothers/caregivers waiting. You had to make a second appointment, and some mothers/caregivers are still resentful about having wasted their morning. This mother seems a little anxious, but you sense she might be persuaded to let you examine her children. After she finally allows you into her compound, you cannot answer all her questions. You therefore try to emphasise two important points to her and her husband (who has returned): 1) you are trying to save the lives of the sickest children, and 2) there is a new treatment for the most malnourished cases that can be given at home so that mothers/caregivers no longer have to spend weeks in the town hospital with their children. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 47 First Neighbour (in community): You are spending the morning in the compound of your friend (community mother) when she is visited by the health messenger. You recognise him/her as the person who wasted your time on immunisation day and are openly antagonistic to him/her. Why should your friend waste her time with his/her new services? And aren’t his colleagues causing people to be fined over latrines? When your friend finally shows her sick child to him/her, you recognise this as a problem created not by undernutrition but by “spoiled” breast milk. You counsel your friend to get roots from a community healer, boil them and bathe the child with the water. However, your friend eventually decides to accept referral to outpatient care, so you try to help