How participants will be trained (what tools, what scope) in case-finding and sensitisation • Whether community outreach workers will be remunerated or motivated by other means • What materials and tools will be used and how they will be supplied (e.g., MUAC tapes, referral slips) • What communication channels will be supported between communities and health facilities • What linkages may exist between community outreach for CMAM services and other nutritionspecific and nutrition-sensitive community mobilisation activities (e.g., cooking demonstrations, care groups, mother-to-mother support groups, growth monitoring, PD Hearth, demonstration gardens, health promotion, hygiene promotion, village savings and loans) PARTICIPATORY LECTURE AND BRAINSTORM: METHODS OF CASE-FINDING. Explain to participants that an important aspect of a community outreach strategy may be deciding how casefinding will be conducted. Define the three models found in Handout 3.5 Community Outreach Strategy: • House-to-house case-finding • Community case-finding • Mother and family case-finding Ask participants to describe some factors that would suggest which model (or sequence or combination) to use. Possible answers include: the degree of acute malnutrition in the community; community awareness of the signs of acute malnutrition; accessibility of homes and degree to which they are clustered; existing networks of CHWs and their workloads; time and resources available for training and outreach; whether or not case-finding is envisioned as a permanent need or temporary measure. PRACTICE: DETERMINING METHODS OF CASE-FINDING. With participants still in working groups, refer participants to Exercise 3.3 Comparison of Case-Finding Models. Taking the three models for case-finding in sequence, ask groups to discuss the categories and fill in the matrix. Remind them of some of the factors discussed above, and if necessary get them started by asking which of the models are appropriate for start-up and which for post-start-up. In discussing the responses, note that there are no ‘right answers’ for every situation. The most important lesson from this exercise is that many decisions are trade-offs that balance convenience for community members against convenience for the service providers. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: SELECTION OF CANDIDATES FOR HOUSE-TO-HOUSE CASEFINDING. Explain to participants that once a decision has been made concerning the type of casefinding to employ, the team will need to see who can most easily undertake this work. In some settings, the options may be very limited and the choice obvious. Where there are several options available, it can be a useful process to consider systematically the strengths and weaknesses of each