p.21. WHO/CDR/93.5 UNICEF/NUT/93.3. 203 UNICEF, 2000, ‘Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative’, Revised, Updated and Expanded for Integrated Care, Section 3.2, p.91. ANNEX F 99 support in SAM treatment, there is no clear guidance on how to measure this. • Staff: patient ratio recommended for children (1:10) may not be sufficient for infants under six months. Current guidance In 2013, WHO released updated recommendations on the management of SAM in infants and children205. Recommendation 8 deals with identifying and managing infants who are less than 6 months of age with SAM and covers: • Criteria for admission into inpatient care • Medical care • Establishment or re-establishment of effective exclusive breastfeeding • Treatment recommendations • Criteria to transfer from inpatient to outpatient care • Criteria for discharge • Options for those that do not require inpatient care or whose caregivers decline admission F2. Adults and adolescents CMAM programmes may encounter and include significant numbers of adults and adolescents with SAM particularly in contexts where there is high prevalence of HIV. In some contexts older people may be particularly affected. There is a lack of international consensus and evidence for the criteria for classifying acute malnutrition and for therapeutic treatment in these groups though some guidance does exist for the emergency setting and is listed below. 205 WHO, 2013, ‘Updates on the management of severe acute malnutrition in infants and young children,’, http://www.who.int/ nutrition/publications/guidelines/updates_management_SAM_ infantandchildren/en/. • IASC/GNC/Nutrition Works, 2011, Harmonized Training Materials Package. Module 13: Management of Severe Acute Malnutrition and Module 23: Nutrition of Older People in Emergencies206 • UNHCR/WFP, Guidelines for selective feeding: The management of malnutrition in emergencies207, January 2011 • Navarro-Colorado, 2006, Adult Malnutrition in Emergencies208: An overview of diagnosis and treatment ACF • MSF Nutrition guidelines209, 2006 • Woodruff and Duffield, 2009, Adolescents: Assessment of Nutritional Status in Emergency Affected Populations210, UN ACC/SCN Assessment The IASC/GNC/NutritionWorks 2011 guidance, while stressing the need for diagnosis taking into account clinical signs particularly for these groups and recognizing the lack of consensus and evidence, gives the following summary (Table 7) based on the little available evidence and common practice: For older people, MUAC, is recommended as the nutritional status assessment tool. Generally, social and psychosocial factors assume greater significance in the diet, food choices, food intake and nutritional and functional profiles of older people, as compared to other population 206 GNC, 2011, http://www.unscn.org/en/gnc_htp/howto-htp. php#howtousehtp 207 UNHCR and WFP, 2011, Guidelines for Selective