important staple food (wheat flour) is generally volatile and in line with the national pricing trends. 5. Considering the characteristics of the seven surveyed Districts and Tribal Sub-Divisions in terms of current livelihoods and food security, it is recommended that households obtain more immediate to medium term assistance in line with Accelerated Implementation Plan(AIP) to reduce high food insecurity and to protect their livelihoods. Medium to long term livelihood and Integrated Natural Resource Management (INRM) recovery activities should become regular development programmes to address the chronic and structural causes of food insecurity would be more appropriate. 6. Household income is generally low and places people in an increasingly vulnerable situation. An immediate and sustained focus on increasing the income of Merged Areas residents must be a priority and should capitalize on gains made by women in supporting the household economy. Thus, conditional cash assistance for asset creation activities are required to enhance household food security, restore or create stable assets and support resilience building for the household and communities. 7. Agriculture and livestock are the primary source of livelihood and food availability for a high proportion of the population. Improvement in the livelihood, poverty and food security situation is heavily dependent on investment in the agriculture sector. 8. The conditions in the Merged Areas are still not adequate to ensure a sustainable return and long-term development. Access to basic services (WASH, health, nutrition, education etc.) needs to be improved, as well as support for shelters and housing to bridge gaps in house reconstruction. 9. Vulnerability varies across sectors and District / tribal subdivision. Some areas currently appear particularly vulnerable. The multi-sectoral needs in these areas must be prioritized. Monitoring tools to identify changes in vulnerability over time must be established. This will contribute to a flexible investment approach that can anticipate and address emerging problems before they become critical. Food Access 1. Despite adequate food availability at national and provincial level, high levels of household food insecurity in the Merged Areas is attributed to limited/poor economic access to food. The availability of food at affordable prices in remote areas with poor market access is a key issue in the Merged Areas. Therefore, improvements in the agriculture market infrastructure are Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 73 suggested in order to enhance the physical access to key food commodities and stabilize the food prices