of data on implementing management of SAM (see box 2). This information will inform initial consultations and bottleneck analysis. Plans to track down additional data identified as essential for use during bottleneck analysis should also be made at this stage. Consult with stakeholders Next, a stakeholder meeting should be held at the national level, facilitated through a nationallevel technical working group or coordination mechanism such as the Nutrition Cluster. The purpose of the meeting is to build a common understanding of how to manage SAM; discuss the scope and objectives of scale-up; and agree on broad processes, activities, timelines and responsibilities for capacity assessment and bottleneck analysis. A working group for planning and implementing scale-up of management of SAM can be formed at this stage, if one doesn’t already exist. This process should include defining how this national group will reach down to regional and district levels and actively engage stakeholders at the subnational level. PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 9 Enabling environment Social norms Legislation/policy Legislation/policy Budget/expenditure Budget/expenditure Management/coordination Management/coordination Supply Availability of commodities Access to adequately staffed services, facilities and information Availability of human resources Geographic access to delivery points Financial access Initial utilization of services Demand Continuity of use Timely and continuous utilization Quality Effective coverage or good quality of services approach originated by Dr. T. Tanahashi.11 It is based on the principle that certain critical conditions or determinants need to be fulfilled to achieve effective and high-quality coverage of services, practices and systems, which are essential for the realization of the rights of disadvantaged children and their families. Understanding the determinants and assessing how they affect the desired results enables sound programming. Ten determinants have been identified by UNICEF as critical to achieve results for children across all programme sectors (see table 1). These determinants are grouped into four domains: enabling environment, supply, demand and quality. 11 The approach was originally proposed by Dr. T. Tanahashi in the 1970s and has been incorporated into the Marginal Budgeting for Bottlenecks approach to identifying and alleviating bottlenecks to coverage of health care. The basic principles remain the same in MoRES, but the ‘enabling environment’ category was added as determinants of financial access, and socio-cultural beliefs and practices were added under ‘demand’. should be identified, as well as bottlenecks and barriers that constrain the fulfilment of the determinants. The removal of bottlenecks and barriers are then monitored frequently