and explain which expectations are likely and unlikely to be met during the training. Leave the expectations posted during training and review them at the end of each day. Tell participants that a flip chart will be kept free to post ideas, questions, and suggestions that arise throughout the course (often referred to as a “parking place”). Check the parking place periodically throughout the course and respond. Refer participants to Handout 1.1 Abbreviations and Acronyms and Handout 1.2 Terminology for CMAM. Ask them to use them as reference tools and invite questions now or at any point in the training. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 17 Module 1 Learning Objective 1: Discuss Acute Malnutrition and the Need for a Response TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 1.3 Key Information on Undernutrition. BRAINSTORM: UNDERNUTRITION AS A PUBLIC HEALTH CONCERN. Ask participants to contemplate the statement “Undernutrition is a public health concern” and to brainstorm reasons whether and why this statement is true. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: INTRODUCTION TO ACUTE MALNUTRITION. Ask participants “What is acute malnutrition?” and “Why is a focus on acute malnutrition important?” Discussion should touch on the difference between MAM and SAM, and text from Handout 1.3 Key Information on Undernutrition. Bilateral Pitting Oedema MUAC WFH z-score (WHO standards) SAM Present < 115 mm < -3 z-score MAM Not present ≥ 115 mm and < 125 mm ≥ -3 and < -2 POWERPOINT: UNDERNUTRITION AND ACUTE MALNUTRITION. (Show slides 3–6.) • Slide 3: Explain undernutrition and its types. • Slide 4: Ask participants what they see and to describe the nutritional status of all three children. Tell participants all three children are the same age. Discuss how this changes their impressions of the children’s nutritional status. Note: The child on the left is stunted, the middle child is normal, and the child on the right is wasted and probably stunted as well. • Slide 5 and 6: Remind participants that wasting contributes to 875,000 deaths of children under 5 each year. The Lancet series and the UNICEF/WHO/World Bank joint child malnutrition estimates highlight the extent of the problem of acute malnutrition. Note to participants that: Acute malnutrition does not just occur in emergencies and is not limited to Africa. Wasting occurs in both emergencies and non-emergencies. Acute malnutrition is not only caused by inadequate food intake but a combination of factors including underlying infections and