of bottlenecks analysed. Analysis Analysis based on national formats should focus on: • Numbers and trends in admissions: to (a) identify seasonal patterns for resource planning, (b) identify anomalies in these trends that require further investigation, (c) track the effects of mobilization and scale-up efforts and (d) identify deterioration in the nutrition situation (in programmes with good coverage). This information will also be used to decide when additional support is required (example in page 20). • Recovery, default, death and non-recovery as a proportion of exits: as measures of 30 This is one of two definitions for geographical coverage. The other one used in this document refers to number of districts with SAM services out of total districts. UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 28 2. Compliance: Programmes in which the beneficiary and the provider adhere strictly to the protocol have a better cure rate than those in which adherence is compromised. Poor compliance can result from a practices of at the level of the beneficiary (e.g., sharing of RUTF within the household) or the challenges at the level of the provider (e.g., stock-outs of RUTF and drugs). Both levels hamper effectiveness. 3. Defaulting: This is the ultimate in poor compliance. Therefore, an effective programme must have (a) thorough case finding and early treatment seeking; (b) good compliance; and (c) good retention from admission to cure (i.e., little or no defaulting). Coverage depends directly upon: • Thorough case finding and early treatment seeking. This ensures that the majority of admissions are uncomplicated cases leading to positive outcomes. • Good retention rate, with a high proportion of admitted cases participating in the programme until being discharged as cured. Defaulted cases are uncovered cases. • Coverage also depends indirectly upon compliance – lengthy stays due to sharing and stock-outs can lead to more defaulting. How to estimate coverage In most cases, when data are available in a country it is possible to report on indirect estimates of geographic coverage (see annex A for discussion and standard calculations).31 Such statistics are very useful for monitoring the progress of scale-up to new facilities within districts, regions and nationally, and they should be reported nationally and subnationally. However, geographic coverage gives little information on 31 For definition see box 33. supervision visits and meetings. The information should be used to address supervision, support and resources in particular areas; decide on staff training focus; and trigger further investigation