analysis and support is needed, along with experience in providing such a heavy product, if supplies are to be delivered reliably through government mechanisms. (See page 35 for guidance on addressing common supply bottlenecks.) Establish links within and outside the health sector There are many potential entry points within the health sector, at both health facility and community level, for the management of SAM (see box 8). These links can multiply entry points for identification of SAM cases and act as points of referral for children with SAM to access complementary health and nutrition services. The value of these entry points is in increasing the reach of services, providing continuity of care, ensuring more efficient use of time and resources (joint trainings, efficient use of staff, funds sharing), and increasing the effectiveness of interventions, particularly in terms of links with HIV programming. In addition, there may be links that can be established between the health sector and other sectors to improve coverage and quality of SAM treatment. Where complementary nutrition interventions are in place it is possible to forge links both to widen opportunities for identifying children with SAM and to provide continuity of care and rehabilitation for them. At the same time, there is less operational guidance on intersectoral linkages to enhance SAM treatment. For this reason, the effects of intersectoral links should be tested and documented on a small scale to assess whether they improve coverage 16 https://supply.unicef.org/unicef_b2c/app/displayApp/(layout=7.012_1_66_67_115&carea=%24ROOT)/.do?rf=y. • Community level: Where paid community health workers are used to identify and refer SAM cases, issues of added workload need to be addressed. Where possible, identification and follow-up of SAM cases should be integrated into the existing training and supervision packages for these workers. Training packages for community health workers are typically conducted over 2-3 days (see page 53 and Annex E) Though paid community-level workers can greatly facilitate the scale-up of management of SAM, they are not a prerequisite for a successful programme. Capacity development can also focus on community volunteers and other local agents identified during community-level inquiry who can complement the work of community health workers and reduce their workload (see page 37). Develop referral modalities between management components When children with SAM are identified at community level, referred to facilities and then moved between inpatient and outpatient care or other programmes such as targeted supplementary feeding programmes to treat MAM and provide support for discharged