as possible, involving both regional and national actors, as this will increase ownership of the guidelines and adherence to them. Though good international resources exist, they should never be imposed without consultation and adaptation. 38 Gaps could include limited guidance for the treatment of one form of malnutrition (e.g., SAM) but can also refer to gaps in guidance to promote a continuum of care for acute malnutrition, in particular where MAM management is operational in country. Good practice: Measures to increase focus on demand creation • Cross-sectoral discussion on the mechanisms for community mobilization during the bottleneck analysis and planning process • Clear allocation of responsibilities for the community mobilization component during programme planning • Investigation of community understanding of malnutrition during the community enquiry process, and identification of key community figures to communicate programme information • Implementation of regular coverage assessment to illustrate the need for a strong community component (and advocacy for funds) and help to identify particular geographic areas and barriers to coverage on which community mobilization can focus BOX 24 GOOD PRACTICES FOR ADDRESSING BOTTLENEKCS IN SCALING UP 39 outpatient and inpatient components of management of SAM and to ensure that children are not lost in the referral between different services. Addressing this topic during community enquiry (see annex B) helps in identifying useful community-level mechanisms. Some innovative technologies are also showing promise for this area (see box 26). Supervision Common supervision bottlenecks include: • Limited health system supervision capacity • Attempts to replicate unsustainable supervision models put in place by NGOs. Supervising the management of SAM implementation is critical to maintaining quality, but it is a common challenge during scale-up, primarily due to shortcomings in supervision in Good practice: Addressing motivation and participation of volunteers and other community agents • As part of the community enquiry, conduct an assessment of the acceptable level of workload for volunteers (see annex B). Experience has shown that it is possible to maintain quality of referrals with large numbers of volunteers, so it should be possible to strike an effective balance by holding workload and area of operation to acceptable levels. • Develop appropriate and nationally agreed motivation packages for volunteers. • Rewarding good performance by volunteers (either through cash or non cash incentives) • Include community agents/volunteers in training on management of SAM. • Where volunteers are already a recognized delivery mechanism for health services, advocate for them