findings from the interviews, create a handbill (messages to communicate) and begin devising a community outreach strategy and an action plan. It can be difficult to practice realistic community outreach activities in an area that already has CMAM services. The visit should be done at a location that is not serviced by CMAM. Preparations include meeting with community leaders to arrange for the group interviews, selecting community members for the group interviews, lining up translators, arranging transportation, and developing simple interview guides (lists of questions). Trainers might need to work through contacts in the community to make some of the arrangements. The period allotted for this field visit is a fraction of the time needed to cover all aspects of community outreach. This particular site visit plan emphasises the community assessment, strategy and materials components. These notes are a map of activities to be conducted during the visit. They are not meant to substitute for technical aids to qualitative research, such as focus group manuals, or for the trainer’s knowledge and abilities. The trainer must use his/her judgment of the local setting to adapt the module content for best effect. The trainer must ensure that participants are aware of any cultural or community norms so they can adapt to them as necessary (e.g., if certain attire is expected). Note: If the training course on integration of infant and young child feeding (IYCF) support into CMAM is conducted to complement this module, additional time should be set aside for the additional IYCF support field visit activities. Details can be found at https://www.ennonline.net/integrationiycfintocmam. Field Visit Objectives Handouts to Take to Field Visit Practice Conducting Interviews with Communities Interview guide developed and provided by trainer Handout 3.4 Community Outreach: From Assessment to Strategy Handout 3.8 Reference: Handbill Messages Handout 3.13 Team Checklist for Community Outreach Field Visit Consolidate Findings from Interviews Practice Developing a Handbill Practice Developing a Community Outreach Strategy and an Action Plan Materials • Spiral-bound notebooks Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 59 Advance Preparations • One week in advance, make arrangements with leaders of two communities to hold eight two-hour meetings in the communities. Four meetings will be held simultaneously in each community. Ideally, two communities that are very different from each other (e.g., environment, ethnicity, accessibility) should be selected, but the degree of local heterogeneity and availability of resources—especially transportation—will determine whether this