there is little likelihood of stigma or shame in publicly presenting a very malnourished child Less effort for outreach workers than house-to-house case-finding Fewer screeners are needed than for house-to-house, allowing emphasis during training on securing reliable MUAC measurement from a smaller number of trainees Gathering too many households in one location can create confusion and waste families’ time. Could reproduce existing patterns of access, catering to families who already are well served, while the marginalised stay home Screeners cannot come unannounced; people must be told when screening team will arrive, which requires advance planning and sticking to the plan Mother and Family CaseFinding Both startup and post-startup Situations where community health workers (CHWs) exist but have a high workload The approach can be combined with mass community trainings and campaigns. Situations where CHWs play an important role in training, monitoring, and supporting mothers and family members and in checking the mother’s diagnosis Situations where distances between households make it difficult for CHWs or volunteers to conduct regular house-tohouse screening of children Puts the mother at the centre of screening, therefore encourages early identification of nutritionally vulnerable infants and children who are acutely malnourished. More regular screening because the mother is always in contact with the child, and accuracy of MUAC measurement may increase with repeated use. If all mothers within the catchment area are trained, the approach can greatly improve the coverage of CMAM services. It is labour-intensive at the start, which includes planning and implementing mass training campaigns for mothers and family members. It requires sourcing large quantities of MUAC tapes. Mothers’ MUAC measurements might not be accurate without quality training and routine follow up. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 53 PRACTICE: SELECTING CANDIDATES FOR CASE-FINDING. Break participants into groups according to their districts and ask each group to fill in its own matrix using Exercise 3.4 Worksheet: Selection of Candidates for Community Outreach, based on local extension workers and volunteers. Ask them to list and consider the merits of at least three categories of candidates: 1. Health extension workers (HEWs) and volunteers (e.g., CHWs, community-based family planning distributors/educators, home-based care [HBC] volunteers, vitamin A distributors) 2. Other extension workers and volunteers (e.g., agricultural extension workers, social welfare officers, NGO project workers) 3. Important community figures (e.g. teacher, priest or catechist, secondary school leavers, elected leaders, cultural leaders, traditional healers) PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: