to use, the pros and cons of using existing networks of volunteers or extension workers, and the involvement of civil society and other partners outside the official health sector. If time allows, trainers may wish to address these strategic questions in smaller groups and compare the groups’ conclusions. • Summarise the emerging strategy as bullet points on the flip chart, taking care to review the assessment insights that led to the conclusions. • Ask participants to structure action plans around building a continuous relationship with the community, assisting the community with selecting outreach workers, training volunteers to perform case-finding, and engaging civil society partners. • With the insights into the community that have been accumulated and shared, ask participants how they would allocate time for different mobilisation activities. Activity: Feedback on Field Visit Session Method: Feedback/Discussion After the field visit, conduct a feedback session in which participants will: • Provide feedback on strengths observed in the community outreach activities • Raise issues for clarification by facilitators • Identify key gaps that need more observation time Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 62 MODULE FOUR: OUTPATIENT CARE FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SAM WITHOUT MEDICAL COMPLICATIONS Module Overview This module introduces participants to the concepts and protocols used in outpatient care for children with severe acute malnutrition (SAM) without medical complications. It provides an overview of admission and discharge processes and criteria, medical treatment and nutrition rehabilitation in outpatient care. Emphasis is placed on the use of an action protocol, which helps health care providers determine which children require referral to inpatient care and which children require follow-up at home. To align with the 2013 World Health Organisation (WHO) guidance on the management of SAM in infants and children, this module has also been updated to provide guidance on the management of at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months of age (MAMI) without medical complications in outpatient care. The module complements the WHO 2013 updates on the management of SAM in infants and children and the WHO training modules for the inpatient management of SAM with medical complications. It is intended to be used alongside national guidelines and national treatment protocols for the management of SAM. The module also includes a field visit where participants will practice assessing and admitting at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months as pairs and children 6–59 months with SAM without medical