+ Severe) 38% 48% 42% 35% 42% 19% 37% 24% Among the Districts, non-displaced households are relatively more food insecure in Mohmand, Khyber, Bajaur Districts, while in Orakzai, South and North Waziristan and Kurram Districts the displaced households are relatively more food insecure than non-displaced. Food Consumption Score The Food Consumption Score (FCS28) is a proxy indicator of food security and is a composite score based on 7-days recall period of different food groups consumed at the household’s level. According to the findings, overall 69 percent of households have ‘acceptable food consumption’, 8 percent have ‘poor consumption’ while the remaining 23 percent have ‘borderline consumption’. Among the Districts, food consumption of the households in TSDs is relatively poor. The highest proportion of households falling in the poor food consumption category is in TSD D.I.Khan (34 percent) followed by District Orakzai (24 percent) and TSD Lakki (23 percent). Other areas with relatively higher proportion of households with poor food consumption are TSD Peshawar (18 percent) TSD Tank (12 percent) District Kurram (9 percent). Households with ‘borderline’ food consumption are highest in District Orakzai (40 percent) followed by TSD Lakki (34 percent) and TSD D.I.Khan (33 percent). The households with ‘borderline’ food consumption are also considered susceptible to being slipped to ‘poor’ food consumption category with a minor shock. 28 FCS Consumption Score (FCS) is an acceptable proxy indicator giving an indication of food security status of the household if combined with other household access indicators. Based on a seven-day recall of the food groups consumed within a household, the FCS measures food diversity (types of foods consumed), food frequency (the number of days each food group is consumed), and the relative nutritional importance of different food groups. The score for each food group is calculated by multiplying the number of days the commodity was consumed and its relative weight. The FCS is a weighted sum of food groups. Based on FCS standard thresholds, households are categorized into three groups: "poor" food consumption (FCS=1-28),"borderline "food consumption (FCS = 28.1-42), and "acceptable "food consumption (FCS>42). Figure 2: Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 22 Households falling in ‘poor’ food consumption category are rarely consuming meat, nuts and legumes, other nutrient-rich foods such as milk or its products, and fruits. Those falling in the borderline consumption do eat fruit, meat, legumes and nuts on average one day