linking with existing services to reduce costs and improve effectiveness. • In discussions with donors, focus on the threshold model and use the DRR lens to emphasize the importance of management of SAM in the long term. • Bring donors into scale-up discussions along with government so that both sides can contribute to the plan’s development. • Include management of SAM when using wider advocacy tools such as Marginal Budgeting for Bottlenecks and PROFILES for national, regional and international advocacy (see page 57). • Diversify funding through health or HIV channels or innovative financing options for funding the full nutrition package with management of SAM as one component (see page 66). BOX 18 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 34 including human resources management policies. Positive experiences are summarized in box 20. Health workers’ skills and competencies often need to be strengthened, as management of SAM is not included in pre-service training curricula. Common training and mentoring bottlenecks include: • Lack of knowledge of SAM and experience in managing SAM programmes • Inadequate quality of training • Staff turnover, necessitating repeated trainings A number of countries have developed successful measures to address training bottlenecks (see box 21). Good practice: Planning solutions It is possible to balance the demand-driven nature of the scale-up of the management of SAM approach while ensuring coherent planning. Initial expansion should be based on district-level demand in tandem with a central plan to control the speed of scale-up, such as by targeting a specific number of districts for expansion within a given time frame (as in Malawi). Lack of cost and cost-effectiveness data is now being addressed with better tools and methods (see page 54). Development of medium-term plans covering a given time frame has proven useful in securing funds (in Ethiopia, for example), even if they are still from short-term sources. Note: On scale up in Malawi, see Kathumba S.,’Creating an Enabling Policy Environment for Effective CMAM implementation in Malawi’, http://www.ennonline.net/fex/43/creating. On funding in Ethiopia, see ENN, 2012, ‘Government experiences of scale-up of Community-based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM): A synthesis of lessons’, www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/CMAM-ConferenceSynthesis,-Addis,-ENN-2012.pdf. BOX 19 Good practice: Supporting health staff at facility and community levels Facility level • Place additional nutrition staff at district and regional levels, and make them available to all nutrition programmes, not just to the management of SAM. • Allocate funds from the national budget to increase staff at the lowest level