practice: Supporting health staff at facility and community levels Facility level • Place additional nutrition staff at district and regional levels, and make them available to all nutrition programmes, not just to the management of SAM. • Allocate funds from the national budget to increase staff at the lowest level of service delivery. • Distribute management of SAM follow-up visits over different days of the week to reduce the workload at the treatment sites on any given day. • Mobilize support staff, such as guards, for crowd control to ease the workload of those delivering treatment. Community level • Integrate trainings and materials on management of SAM into existing pre-service and in-service curricula. • Follow short in-service training with a period of on-the-job mentoring to reinforce skills and ensure accurate referrals. • Include training on active and adaptive case finding for SAM (see annex C, Direct Coverage Assessment) so that workers can efficiently identify SAM cases without having to go house to house. • Ensure that communication and feedback mechanisms are in place between the facility and the community-level staff through periodic meetings and supportive supervision. • Use new technology such as Rapid SMS to communicate information on referrals between community-level workers and the facility to minimize the need for additional facility visits by community workers. • Pair up community health workers with other community agents (volunteers) and community groups (women’s groups, youth groups) who can identify and refer cases under supervision. BOX 20 GOOD PRACTICES FOR ADDRESSING BOTTLENEKCS IN SCALING UP 35 Delays and challenges in setting up local production of RUTF. Measures to address these bottlenecks are the following: (a) Maintaining the supply chain The challenges of maintaining the supply chain only increase as scale-up and decentralization of services progress and the overall volume in the supply chain expands. These issues are reported even where parallel delivery systems are implemented with support from the United Nations and NGOs. UNICEF is well placed to support the government supply chain at the country level and is often already doing so for other commodities. Measures to avoid supply breaks and improve forecasting include: • Registering RUTF as an essential supply/ commodity. This will allow the MoH to facilitate clearance of supplies at port and allow government storage at central medical stores and government-led distribution and logistics. Commodities and logistics Common supply and logistics bottlenecks include: RUTF pipeline breaks. Interruptions in supplies