Rebecca Egan, and Sandra Remancus (FANTA); Amanda Yourchuck (formerly FANTA); Marie McGrath (Emergency Nutrition Network); and Mary Lung’aho and Maryanne StoneJiménez (independent consultants) for their valuable contributions in the revision of various sections of the modules. We would like to thank Lindy Fenlason, Timothy Quick, Erin Boyd, Sonia Walia, Judy Canahuati, and Elizabeth Bontrager (USAID); Zita Weise Prinzo (WHO); Dolores Rio (UNICEF); Andre Briend (University of Copenhagen and University of Tampere); Catherine Adu-Asare (Ghana Health Service); Saul Guerrero, Grace Funnell, and others (Action Against Hunger); Kate Golden, Natalie Sessions, and others (Concern Worldwide); Susan Butler and Nicky Connell (Save the Children); Colleen Emary (World Vision International); Suzanne Brinkmann (International Medical Corp [IMC]); Jeanette Bailey and Bethany Marron (International Rescue Committee [IMC]); and Kevin Phelan (Alliance for International Medical Action [ALIMA]). We would also like to thank the following members of the Management of At-risk Mothers and Infants Under 6 Months (MAMI) Special Interest Group: Marko Kerac and Louise Day (London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine), Jay Berkely (KEMRI/Wellcome Trust); Hatty Barthorp (GOAL); Katie Beck (Partners in Health); Indi Trehan and Kirrily de Polnay (Médecins Sans Frontièrs [MSF]); Nigel Rollins (WHO); and Mija-Tesse Ververs (U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [CDC]). For her work editing the revised training materials, we would like to acknowledge Pam Sutton (FANTA). We also would like to thank all the agencies that have implemented community-based therapeutic care (CTC) and CMAM programmes and that have directly and indirectly contributed to the experience and learning to date from which these modules have been developed. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version ii PREFACE In 2017, the World Health Organisation (WHO), United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), and the World Bank estimated that wasting, a form of acute malnutrition, affects the lives of approximately 50.5 million children under 5 years of age globally. Most of these children live in South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. Malnutrition is a major public health concern and the underlying cause of deaths in children under 5 years of age; children with acute malnutrition are also three to nine times more likely to die than wellnourished children1. To address the high rates of acute malnutrition, community-based management of acute malnutrition (CMAM), which evolved from the Community-Based Therapeutic Care (CTC) approach, was developed in 20012. The approach aims to reach the maximum number of children with acute malnutrition and to ensure