admitted for management in the outpatient care. Management of breastfed infants under 6 months of age should prioritize establishing or re-establishing effective exclusive breastfeeding by the mother or other female caregiver. Infants under 6 months who are not breastfed will also need to be assessed and provided targeted feeding support. • Infants under 6 months who are nutritionally vulnerable with medical complications (i.e., high nutritional risk) and children 6–59 months with SAM and medical complications whose mother/caregiver refuses inpatient care despite advice. The infant will require follow-up home visits and close monitoring while in outpatient care. • Children who a health care provider has determined should be admitted, such as children over 5 years of age with bilateral pitting oedema or who are severely wasted. • Infants and children whose medical complications have resolved in inpatient care and have been referred to outpatient care to complete their nutrition rehabilitation. • Infants and children who are recuperating from SAM and who return after defaulting (discharged after being absent for three consecutive sessions) and need to continue their treatment. Refer participants to Handout 4.1 Admission Criteria and Entry Categories for CMAM. Walk participants through the information and answer any questions. Refer participants to Handout 4.2 Outpatient Care: Admission Criteria for Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months for future reference. PRACTICE: ADMISSION CRITERIA FOR OUTPATIENT CARE. Form working groups of three to four people. Distribute Exercise 4.1 Outpatient Care Admission for Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months. Ask each working group to use the information provided in the exercise to decide whether the sample children should be admitted to outpatient care and to explain why or why not. Have groups share their answers in plenary. Discuss and fill in gaps, referring to Exercise 4.1 Outpatient Care Admission for Infants Under 6 Months and Children 6–59 Months answer sheet (on the next page). Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 69 Exercise 4.1 Outpatient Care Admission for Infants Under 6 Months and Children 659 Months (With Answers) Age (months) Appetite Bilateral Pitting Oedema MUAC in mm *WFH/WFL z-score (WHO) Other information Admitted to outpatient care? Child 1 7 Yes No 102 -3 ≤ to <-2 YES, based on MUAC and child has appetite Child 2 24 Yes No 117 <-3 YES, based on WFH and child has appetite (Note: If only MUAC is used, WFH would