should be incorporated into existing health services as a component of routine services for children under five. This ensures good geographic coverage so that as many malnourished children as possible can access treatment. Children can be admitted to OTP at any time if they present at the health facility. They should be treated at the time they present and then asked to come back on the designated OTP day. They will then come to the health facility every week or two weeks until they are discharged. Screening and referral to OTP Active case finding of acutely malnourished children should take place at the community level. Community health workers and community volunteers will carry out active case and will identify and refer acutely malnourished children to the health facility. Screening in the community is done using the same criteria as admission criteria for OTP (MUAC <115mm or presence of bilateral oedema). If there is a supplementary feeding programme, the referral criteria from the community will be MUAC 115<125mm (Yellow). The child should be checked again at the health facility to ensure the accuracy of the referral. If referrals are consistently inaccurate, action should be taken to ensure the community health worker/volunteer understands the admission criteria and measuring technique. Screening and referral to OTP may occur in a number of ways: ▪ Referrals by community health workers and volunteers after screening for acute malnutrition using MUAC and checking for oedema. The community health worker will give the mother/caretaker a referral slip with the MUAC and/ oedema status marked and ask the caretaker to take the child to the health facility. ▪ Referrals by health care providers at the health facility level or from other health and nutrition programmes, such as a growth monitoring, paediatric ward, inpatient care and supplementary feeding programmes. ▪ Self-referral – child is brought to health facility directly by caretaker without referral from community health workers or volunteers. Basic requirements for OTP ▪ WHO is qualified to run OTP: A skilled, trained health care provider must run the OTP. ▪ WHERE: OTP can be operated at basic health unit (BHU), regional health facility (RHC) and at hospital level. OTP may also be run in tents or in the open in acute emergencies or disaster situations. OTP should be linked to health facilities wherever possible. ▪ WHEN: Where the treatment of SAM is integrated into local primary health services or