course)? Please feel free to use the other side to continue responses. Thank you! Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 12 MODULE ONE: OVERVIEW OF COMMUNITY-BASED MANAGEMENT OF ACUTE MALNUTRITION (CMAM) Module Overview This module is a general orientation and overview of community-based management of acute malnutrition (CMAM). It describes the extent of the problem of acute malnutrition, and outlines the key concepts, principles, and components of CMAM. The module also discusses ready-to-use therapeutic food (RUTF) and the use of mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC) as a rapid screening and admission tool for potential beneficiaries. The module briefly looks at the evidence to date and notes how CMAM might be applicable in different contexts and incorporated into routine health services, national policies, and guidelines. In addition, global commitments to CMAM are mentioned. CMAM evolved from Community-Based Therapeutic Care (CTC), a community-based approach for the management of acute malnutrition developed in 2001. The CMAM approach consists of four main components: community outreach, outpatient care for the management of SAM without medical complications, inpatient care for the management of SAM with medical complications, and programmes for the management of moderate acute malnutrition (MAM), such as a supplementary feeding programme (SFP). In some countries, CMAM is referred to as the integrated management of acute malnutrition (IMAM). Learning Objectives Duration Handouts and Exercises Introduce Participants, Training Course, Modules, and Course Objectives 10 minutes Handout 1.1 Abbreviations and Acronyms Handout 1.2 Terminology for CMAM PowerPoint: Overview of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) 1. Discuss Acute Malnutrition and the Need for a Response 10 minutes Handout 1.3 Key Information on Undernutrition PowerPoint: Overview of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) 2. Identify the Principles of CMAM 10 minutes Handout 1.4 CMAM Principles PowerPoint: Overview of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) 3. Describe Innovations and Evidence Making CMAM Possible 15 minutes Handout 1.5 Classification of Acute Malnutrition for CMAM Handout 1.6 Screening, Admission, and Discharge Using MUAC PowerPoint: Overview of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) RUTF packets Coloured MUAC tapes (designed for use in community-based programmes) 4. Identify the Components of CMAM 15 minutes Handout 1.7 CMAM Components and How They Work Together Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 13 and How They Work Together PowerPoint: Overview of Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) 5. Explore How CMAM Can Be Implemented in Different Contexts 15