estimate. Direct treatment coverage estimate: An estimate of treatment coverage made by finding cases and ascertaining whether they are in a suitable treatment programme. This can be done using the assessment/investigation techniques detailed in annex C (CSAS, S3M, SLEAC, and SQUEAC are direct methods). Indirect treatment coverage estimate: An estimate of treatment coverage made using secondary data. This is made by comparing numbers admitted into a programme with a predicted burden of SAM based on prevalence estimates found during nutritional anthropometry survey, multiplied by an estimate of the population in the programme area and adjusted (using informed guesses) for incidence, spontaneous recovery and death (see annex A). Period coverage: Coverage estimated using both current and recovering cases. The rationale for using recovering cases is that they are children who should be in the programme because they have not yet met discharge criteria. Point coverage: Coverage estimated using current cases only. BOX 33 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 60 tapes, scales, measuring boards, nutrition kits, therapeutic food and pharmaceutical products).111 Regular updates on these products are published as technical bulletins which are posted on the catalogue website. • RUTFs: In 2010 the UNICEF Supply Division developed manufacturing standards for RUTF production112. This reflected a recognition that growing numbers of companies were interested in manufacturing RUTF, thus increasing the importance of quality control. The standards were coupled with advocacy for more production by current suppliers and considerable efforts to diversify the supplier base. Competitive bidding exercises were also launched in 2008 and 2010 with the aim of having multiple suppliers provide forecast requirements of RUTF in subsequent years. The focus was on identifying both local and large-scale global suppliers, particularly in Africa, to bring the supply closer to the beneficiaries and reduce production and transportation lead times. Next, audits and inspections of various manufacturing facilities were carried out to certify them as UNICEF suppliers. UNICEF has established collaboration with Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) and WFP to jointly review and approve audit reports for new suppliers, speeding up the approval process. Currently approved suppliers and their prices are listed on the Supply Division website to assure transparency (see RUTF Price Data from Supply Division113). All peanut-based RUTF products approved by Supply Division comply with specifications of the Joint Statement on CMAM and can be used interchangeably 111 https://supply.unicef.org/unicef_b2c/app/displayApp/(layout=7.012_1_66_67_115&carea=%24ROOT)/.do?rf=y. 112 Reference of manufacturing standards to apply for therapeutic foods production (including RUTF) for children with