breaks (see box 22). • Supporting appropriate stock management to minimize wastage (see box 23). (b) Considering local production of RUTF As noted above, local production of RUTF can facilitate the scale-up of management of SAM, but it should not be a prerequisite for the implementation of SAM management. Local production of RUTF offers the potential to create Good practice: Use of Rapid SMS technology in Ethiopia In 2008, capitalizing on the widespread use of mobile phones in Ethiopia, a project was initiated to improve the RUTF supply chain. Field monitors were trained to use the RapidSMS system (two hours of training plus provision of a field guide) to send reports every two weeks from the facility level. The reports covered: • Quantity of RUTF received • Quantity of RUTF consumed • Number of new admissions • Location of distribution centre • Current stock balance. The project also allowed for specific alerts on urgent issues, such as “there is no stock at this outpatient therapeutic programme”. Coverage of supply reporting doubled in just five weeks from initiation of the project, with obvious implications for improved responsiveness and troubleshooting of ordering and supply. By improving completeness of admissions reporting this initiative can also improve forecasting. BOX 22 GOOD PRACTICES FOR ADDRESSING BOTTLENEKCS IN SCALING UP 37 needs to take both production costs and transportation costs into account. Complications in producing RUTF Companies producing RUTF in programme countries often face challenges in terms of sourcing materials, particularly of high quality peanuts; cost of ingredients e.g. milk powder, due to high import charges, local currency fluctuations and value-added tax; and quality control measures, particularly the need for an independent laboratory to ensure the finished product complies with specifications and is safe. The UNICEF accreditation process ensures that good quality products are available in sufficient quantities. Though the process can be lengthy, it raises confidence in the product. Demand Demand often increases with good community mobilization in support of initial and continued use of services. Common community mobilization bottlenecks include: • Insufficient attention to community mobilization, leading to poor treatment coverage • Poor communication about the programme, so that communities don’t know about it or don’t understand who is eligible or why • Poor motivation and heavy workload of community volunteers Insufficient attention to community mobilization (or demand creation) has been identified as a major barrier to achieving programme coverage, particularly during the initial