responsible for coordinating screening and follow up visits with the community health worker/volunteers. After the OTP distribution, she/he reviews the child’s monitoring card with the assigned community worker and highlights areas for special attention during home visits. ▪ Community health workers/volunteers should record follow-up visits in an exercise book and report the findings to the responsible health care provider. ▪ Children should receive a follow-up visit according to the Action Protocol if: -Child has lost weight on two consecutive visits. -Weight or medical condition does not improve within 3 weeks (static weight or loss of weight). -Child was initially treated in inpatient care. -The child has been absent or defaulted from the programme. HEALTH EDUCATION IN OTP ▪ OTP presents a good opportunity for health education. When a child is first admitted to the OTP, the key messages about how to give RUTF, routine medicines and basic hygiene messages should be clearly understood. No other messages are given at this time to avoid overloading the caretaker with too much information. ▪ Simple messages can be developed for use in the OTP and in the community that complement the key messages and attempt to address some of the underlying reasons for the child becoming malnourished in the first place. In some contexts these messages may already exist and can be adapted (for infant and young child feeding breastfeeding and complementary feeding messages). Every attempt should be made to use the same or similar messages that are given out in other existing programmes. ▪ It is essential that messages be reinforced by practice. These messages should focus on: basic hygiene such as hand washing, the importance of frequent and active feeding and what local foods to give young children; identifying malnutrition (when to bring children to OTP); management of diarrhoea and fever and recognising danger signs. ▪ Before discharge, children enrolled in the OTP should begin to transition to appropriate high energy nutrient rich local foods including oil/ghee. Community health workers should ensure that the mother/caretaker knows what foods to give the child, how to prepare local foods and how often to feed the child before the child leaves the OTP. It will also help the child adjust slowly from eating mostly RUTF to eating mostly local foods. In addition to the key messages on RUTF, three essential messages (must be given and practiced at OTP) xx National guidelines for the management