Can Be Implemented in Different Contexts TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 1.8: Case Studies, Handout 1.9: Implementing CMAM in Different Contexts, Handout 1.10: Factors to Consider in Providing Services for the Management of SAM, and Handout 1.11: Integrating CMAM into Routine Health Services at the District Level. WORKING GROUPS: Ask participants to form groups of five or six. Give each group Handout 1.8: Case Studies. Ask the groups: “Which case study best represents your working context, and why”? Ask the groups to present back and then discuss. If not raised in discussion, ask whether the context was an emergency setting or not, whether CMAM services were integrated into routine health services, and whether there was a high HIV prevalence rate. POWERPOINT: CMAM IN DIFFERENT CONTEXTS (Show slides 54–55.) Highlight to participants the following characteristics of CMAM in different contexts: • Emergency and post-emergency settings: CMAM works well in an emergency context because large numbers of children with acute malnutrition can be reached, due to the availability of external financial and technical resources to introduce or strengthen services. • Non-emergency context: CMAM can take place in the context of ongoing health programming. Inpatient care takes place at existing health facilities with 24-hour care (e.g., hospitals, health centres with hospitalisation), while outpatient care operates at the first-level health facility (e.g., health centres, clinics, health posts). • In high HIV prevalence areas: A large proportion of children with SAM in inpatient and outpatient care will be HIV-positive. Most HIV-positive children with SAM will benefit from community-based treatment with RUTF. Strong linkages between CMAM, HIV testing and counselling, and treatment services (i.e., offering antiretroviral [ARV] and cotrimoxazole prophylaxis) are essential. WORKING GROUPS: INTEGRATING CMAM INTO EXISTING HEALTH SERVICES. With participants in the same working groups, refer them to Handout 1.11 Integrating CMAM into Routine Health Services at the District Level. Ask participants to read it quietly and then discuss what programmes in their district could be integrated with CMAM and how. Ask them to take into account the factors outlined in Handout 1.10 Factors to Consider in Providing Services for the Management of SAM. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 24 Module 1 Learning Objective 6: Identify Key National and Global Developments and Commitments Relating to CMAM TRAINER: Become familiar with the WHO, WFP, UN/SCN, and UNICEF 2007 Joint Statement on Community-Based Management of Severe Acute Malnutrition. POWERPOINT: GLOBAL