again Return after default Children or pregnant or lactating women who return after default (absent more than one visit if SFP is every month or more than 2 visits if SFP is every two weeks) xlvi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Enrolment procedure steps STEP 1: Anthropometric (MUAC, weight, oedema) assessment ▪ Measure MUAC (Annex 1). ▪ Check for oedema (Annex 1). If there is bilateral oedema refer to OTP. For pregnant women if oedema is present refer for medical assessment. ▪ Measure weight (children only) ▪ Assess for bilateral pitting oedema If the child meets the criteria for OTP (severely acutely malnourished) refer to the nearest OTP. If the child or the pregnant/lactating woman meets the criteria for SFP continue with Step 2. STEP 2: Enrolment in SFP ▪ Explain to the caretaker that their child needs to be enrolled in the programme and why. Explain the purpose of the treatment/programme to pregnant/lactating women. ▪ Register the child or pregnant or lactating woman in a registration book. ▪ Complete the admission section of the SFP ration card (Annex 24) and assign a number. STEP 3: Routine medication Routine medicines (vitamin A, mebendazole and iron) are given to all children and pregnant and lactating women admitted to SFP. See Annex 27 for the routine medical protocol for SFP. ▪ Vitamin A given to all children on enrolment (unless they have received vitamin A in the last one month). ▪ Children referred from OTP, or other health facility where Vitamin A has already been given should not be given vitamin A. ▪ Children showing clinical signs of vitamin A deficiency should be referred to the nearest health facility for treatment according to WHO guidelines. ▪ Vitamin A is NOT given to pregnant women. Lactating women receive Vitamin A post partum (6 weeks after delivery) only. ▪ Mebendazole/Albendazole is given to all children aged 12-59 months on enrolment. ▪ Iron is given to children on admission if there are signs of anaemia. If there is severe anaemia, refer to inpatient care. ▪ Iron/folate is given to all pregnant and lactating women on admission. ▪ Measles vaccine is given to all unvaccinated children above 6 months of age. ▪ Record the medications given in the registration book. STEP 4: Give SFP ration Nutritional treatment in SFP is given through a take