of age in Handout 4.14 Admission Process for Outpatient Care for At-Risk Mothers and Infants Under 6 Months of Age. Walk the participants through the steps, emphasizing the important considerations they need to take into account. Respond to questions. PRACTICE: FILLING OUT A C-MAMI OUTPATIENT CARE TREATMENT CARD. Distribute a local C-MAMI outpatient care treatment card if one is available. Otherwise, use Handout 4.15 C-MAMI Outpatient Care Treatment Card. Note that ALL pairs of at-risk mothers and infants admitted for management in the outpatient care site receive an outpatient care treatment card, including those being referred to inpatient care. One treatment card should be issued to one mother-infant pair. Explain the general column and row details on the C-MAMI outpatient care treatment card and the information needed to fill one out. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE. Ask participants to refer to the Handout 4.13, explain recommended breastfeeding practices as well as counselling and support for effective breastfeeding covering the following four areas: good attachment, effective suckling, frequency of breastfeeds, and receiving other liquids and foods. Respond to questions. DEMONSTRATION: GOOD ATTACHMENT. If possible, show the following videos. After the video session, discuss and respond to questions (select the appropriate video depending on audience: health worker training and counselling/helping mothers). • Breastfeeding attachment: https://globalhealthmedia.org/portfolio-items/attaching-your-baby-at-thebreast/?portfolioID=10861 • Breastfeeding positions: https://globalhealthmedia.org/portfolio-items/positions-forbreastfeeding/?portfolioID=10861 • Effective suckling and breastfeeding frequency: https://globalhealthmedia.org/portfolio-items/is-yourbaby-getting-enough-milk/?portfolioID=10861 PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: COUNSELLING AND SUPPORT FOR EFFECTIVE BREASTFEEDING. Ask participants to refer to the Handout 4.13. Explain the recommended breastfeeding practices as well as counselling and support for effective breastfeeding. Ensure that you cover the following areas: • Perception of “not enough” breast milk • Breast conditions such as engorgement; sore or cracked nipples; plugged ducts and mastitis; flat, inverted, large, or long nipples; thrush in the infant and mother • Low birth weight infant; kangaroo mother care (KMC) • Breast milk expression, cup feeding, and storage of breast milk Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 78 • Relactation • Other breastfeeding-related concerns including: Mother expresses concern about diet, mother expresses concern about working or being away from her infant, twin delivery, adolescent mother, mother HIV or TB infected DEMONSTRATION: COUNSELLING AND SUPPORT FOR EFFECTIVE BREASTFEEDING. If possible, show the following videos. After the video session, discuss and respond to questions. (Select the appropriate video depending on audience: health worker training and counselling/helping mothers.) • Perception of ‘not enough’ breast milk: https://globalhealthmedia.org/portfolio-items/increasing-yourmilk-supply/?portfolioID=10861 • Nipple