Handout 7.11 Staff Needs, Roles and Responsibilities and ask them to read quietly. Answer any questions. PRACTICE: CALCULATING RUTF NEEDS. Remind participants that RUTF is an essential component of CMAM, therefore, calculating estimated RUTF needs is essential. Refer participants to Handout 7.12 Calculating Estimated RUTF Needs. Discuss the example given and answer any questions. Then ask Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 130 participants to calculate the estimated RUTF needs for the CMAM services planned in their district based on the number of SAM cases estimated above. GROUP DISCUSSION: ACCESS TO CMAM EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES. Refer participants to Handout 7.13 Overview of Resources for CMAM. Discuss each category: staff, equipment and supplies, transport, physical structures and equipment per site. (Note that while RUTF is mentioned, actual supply should be based on RUTF needs as calculated above.) Ask participants which of the supplies on the list are challenging to obtain and what they would need to do to obtain them. Discuss and answer any questions. WORKING GROUPS: PRACTICE PRODUCING AN ACTION PLANNING MATRIX. Refer participants to Handout 7.14 Matrix for Action Planning. Discuss the overall categories and how to think through the timing of the activities. Have participants return to their working groups and, building on work completed in the past activities, ask them to: • List all planned activities using the key elements of CMAM, as listed in Handout 7.1, to classify the activities • Develop a timeline • Indicate responsible persons and resources for each activity (use the key elements of CMAM aligned with the HSS building blocks to classify the activities) Have participants present their action plans in plenary, receiving feedback and suggestions from others. Note: Logistical planning can be developed separately and includes specific actions on organising transportation, shelter, equipment, materials and supplies, including monitoring and reporting forms. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 131 Module 7 Learning Objective 5: Planning for Special Cases: Transitioning and Contingencies TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 7.15 Matrix for Transition Planning of CMAM and Handout 7.16 Guidance for Contingency Planning for CMAM. Refer back to Handout 7.5 Capacity Grid for CMAM at the District Level if necessary. BRAINSTORM: TRANSITION PLANNING. Explain to participants that transition refers to the process leading up to hand-over, including planning and preparation for the gradual transfer of roles and responsibilities for CMAM services to the MOH