scale-up plans and put them into practice. Guidance point: Partners to include in consultations • Relevant MoH sections: includes clinical services, infectious/communicable diseases, health promotion, information management, HIV, not just the section with primary responsibility for nutrition • Private sector: health providers (particularly where they are numerous) and those with potential for involvement in local production • Ministry of agriculture: particularly where active community extension workers are in place and where local production is under discussion • Ministry of social affairs/social welfare: particularly where community extension workers fall under their responsibility, where systems are in place for free health care based on eligibility criteria and where social protection schemes are in place that could provide useful links • Ministry of education: particularly to ensure links with early childhood development initiatives and for discussion on pre-service training • Regional and district administrations, social development departments and health offices • Professional associations: national paediatric associations, midwife associations, etc. • Religious organizations: particularly those involved in service delivery and community support • Training and academic Institutions: universities, colleges, medical schools, etc. • Other ministries (water, planning, child protection etc.) for specific issues or topics that need to be discussed, such as advocacy with the Ministry of Planning for budgetary allocation during the government’s financial year • United Nations organizations present in the country: UNHCR, WFP, WHO, UNOCHA if present in the country • Potential donors and/or traditional nutrition donors • NGOs BOX 2 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 8 Step 3. Perform bottleneck analysis While progress continues in the development of global level guidance for integrating SAM treatment into the broader health system package, it is important to ensure that bottlenecks are analysed and potential solutions identified as part of the local planning process. An assessment of bottlenecks should be conducted in a participatory way with representatives from all stakeholder groups, covering national, district and community levels. Such an exercise can inform the planning and implementation of new SAM management programmes. It can also be used to assess national implementation capacity in order to identify bottlenecks that need attention, which in turn feeds into the development of annual action plans. Monitoring Results for Equity System (MoRES) and District Health System Strengthening (DHSS) tools and guidance can be used for bottleneck analysis, focusing on management of SAM in isolation or as part of a wider health or nutrition package. MoRES can be implemented through a