October 2025 Benazir Nashonuma Programme: Delivering Breakthrough Results in Preventing Malnutrition Across Pakistan Operating under the Benazir Income Support Programme (BISP) – the country's largest social protection programme – the Benazir Nashonuma Programme has become a cornerstone in the fight against malnutrition in Pakistan. Nashonuma is delivering measurable impact on child survival and stunting reduction – as demonstrated by its mid-term evaluation. In Pakistan, stunting affects 40 percent of children under 5. Stunting (or chronic malnutrition) is defined as low height-for-age. It occurs over a period of time due to persistent undernutrition. Stunting means a child is too short for their age, signalling prolonged inadequate nutrition, which affects not only growth in length, but also shortand long-term health and development. Stunting cannot be treated, so it must be prevented. The cost of inaction is far greater than the cost of action. In addition to the loss of lives, malnutrition is hampering the country’s efforts to advance the 2030 Agenda and its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), causing an annual economic loss of US$ 17 billion, equivalent to 6.4 percent of the country’s Gross National Income (GNI). BREAKING THE CYCLE OF MALNUTRITION Launched in 2020, the Benazir Nashonuma Programme targets pregnant and breastfeeding women and children under 2, focusing on the pivotal first 1,000 days of a child's life. Through its integration with BISP, Nashonuma can reach the most vulnerable mothers and children. The Nashonuma programme is delivered through 542 facilitation centers and has reached 3.7 million women and children so far, including 38,000 children suffering from severe acute malnutrition with medical complications (SAM-C). Map: Nashonuma 542 Facilitation Centers Nashonuma provides a comprehensive package of nutrition-sensitive interventions: 1. Antenatal and postnatal care services, child growth monitoring and immunization. 2. Awareness sessions on maternal, infant and young child nutrition and hygiene practices. 3. Conditional cash stipends provided by BISP to beneficiaries. 4. Provision of specialized nutritious food (SNF) for mothers and children. They consist of 5075 grams of nutrient-packed paste to complement the diet by filling nutrient gaps. 5. Screening and Management of Moderate and Severe Acute Malnutrition for children and mothers, including lifesaving treatment. A GOVERNMENTAL INVESTMENT, SUPPORTED BY UN AGENCIES The Nashonuma Programme is managed by the Government of Pakistan under the Benazir Income Support Programme (BISP). The World Food Programme (WFP), in close partnerships with Health Departments, supports the management of the 542 Facilitation Centers and the procurement and distributions