the child on the front of the mother/caretaker with her arms wrapped round the child (skin to skin technique). Wrap the mother and baby in blankets together. Infants less than 6 months xxxvi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women ▪ Give a hot drink given to the mother to increase the heat she makes in her skin to warm her infant. STEP 5: Treat complications Any complications such as hypothermia, hypoglycemia, dehydration, infection, septic shock should be treated. Check carefully to avoid over-treatment, particularly of dehydration, as fluid overload is dangerous. See Annex 19 for treatment of complications. STEP 6: Give routine medical treatment Give to all infants < 6 months routine medical treatment (Annex 26). STEP 7: Provide supplemental therapeutic feeding for breast-fed infants The aim of nutritional treatment is to: ▪ Stimulate breast-feeding. ▪ Supplement the child until breast milk is sufficient to allow the child to grow properly. ▪ Treatment is based on the Supplemental Suckling Technique (SST). This is a technique that allows the infant to take supplemental milk through a tube attached to the breast as well as suckling at the breast. The SST stimulates the production of breastmilk through continuous suckling (see SST below). ▪ It is important to put the child to the breast as often as possible. ▪ The therapeutic milk used in the SST is F100 diluted (F100D). ▪ Infants with oedema should be given F75. When the oedema has resolved switch to F100 dilute. Preparation of F100 dilute and how much to give Preparation How much to give CAUTION !: -Use ONLY commercially produced F100 which has been diluted. Where F100 diluted is not available, use the same quantities of commercial infant formula diluted according to the instructions on the tin. Home prepared milk-based feeds/modified animal milk recipes are not suitable for malnourished infants under 6 months and should not be used. -Infants less than 6 months with oedema should be given F75 NOT F100 diluted. When the oedema has resolved they should be changed to F100 diluted or infant formula. -Do not use RUTF for infants less than 6 months. Preparation of F100 diluted One packet (456g) of F100 in 2.7ml of water (instead of the standard 2 litres) to make F100 dilute. For small quantities of F100 dilute: Use 100 ml of F100 already prepared and add