I9 Vegetable and leaves I10 I11 Fruits (any fresh or dried fruits: banana, apple, apricot, peach, etc.) I12 I13 Oil / fat / butter: vegetable oil, palm oil, other fats / oils I14 I15 Sugar/sweet: sugar, honey, jam, sugary drinks, other sweets I16 Section: J. Household Dietary Diversity (HDD): Now I would like to ask you about the types of food that you or anyone else in your household ate Yesterday during the day and at night? (Include foods eaten by any member of the household, and exclude foods purchased and eaten outside the home). Food category & food group with example food names 1=Yes, 2=No J1 Cereals: bread, rice noodles, biscuits, or any other foods made from wheat, millet, sorghum, maize, rice etc. J2 Roots & tubers: Any potatoes, yams, manioc, cassava or any other foods made from roots or tubers? J3 Vegetables: (any type) J4 Fruits: (any type) (banana, apple, lemon, papaya, apricot, peach, mango etc.) J5 Meat, Poultry: Any beef, lamb, goat, chicken, liver, kidney, heart, or other organ meats J6 Eggs J7 Fish & Seafood: Any fresh or dried fish J8 Pulses/legumes/nuts: Any foods made from beans, peas, lentils, or nuts J9 Milk & milk products: Any cheese, yogurt, milk or other milk products J10 Oil/fats: Any foods made with oil, fat, or butter J11 Sugar/honey: Any sugar or honey J12 Miscellaneous: Any other foods, such as condiments (salt, garlic, spices, baking powder, tomato sauce, meat or fish as a condiment,), coffee, tea Section: K. Consumption Based Coping Strategies During the last 7 days, were there days (and, if so, how many) when your household had to employ one of the following strategies (to cope with a lack of food or money to buy it)? (Frequency number of days from 0 to 7) K1 Relied on less preferred, less expensive food K2 Borrowed food or relied on help from friends or relatives K3 Reduced number of meals eaten per day K4 Reduced portion size of meals K5 Reduction in the quantities consumed by adults/mothers for young children Section: L. Livelihood based coping strategies: During the past 30 days; did anyone in your household have to engage in any following behaviors due to a lack of food or a lack of money to buy food? 1=No, because I did not face a shortage of food, 2=No, because I already sold those assets or have engaged in this