return. If a child is transferred from OTP to inpatient care and does not return to OTP after one or two weeks, community health workers and community volunteers should find out what has happened to the child. If a child dies while in inpatient care or defaults, this information should be recorded on the OTP card and filed in the correct place. Defaulters: The OTP card remains in the exit file under at the OTP site/health facility under: Defaulters. Defaulters (should be followed up by community health workers and volunteers. The caretaker should be encouraged to return. If the child does not return the reason for default should be investigated by community health workers and volunteers and the information reported back to the health care provider and recorded on the card. This may help health care providers address the problem of the individual child but also see if the issue is represents a broader problem for the programme as a whole. For example if several children repeatedly default due to distance, it might make sense to operate the OTP every two weeks rather than weekly. Deaths: The OTP card should be is filed in the exit file under Deaths. If a child dies in the SFP, OTP or inpatient care a record should be kept of their symptoms and suspected diagnosis. In OTP and SFP this information is often collected by community health workers and volunteers. The information should be recorded on the card. It can help identify problems with treatment and the use of the action protocol. Children who are not responding and need follow up: When children are not responding well in the programme and follow up visits are needed according to the Action Protocol (for instance the child has lost weight), community health workers and volunteers should feed-back information regarding the possible reasons for non-recovery to the health care provider. The health care provider should record this on the child’s card. This information can be used to make decisions about whether to transfer the child. COLLECTION OF DATA FOR THE MONTHLY STATISTICS REPORT Basic routine programme data should be collected and reported every month as follows: Children entering the programme Children who enter the program to begin nutritional treatment are new enrolees. They are divided into the following groups: ▪ Wasted children (MUAC, W/H) ▪ Children with oedema ▪ Transfers from inpatient care to OTP: Children who