questions. Have another group briefly report back in plenary. Refer participants to Handout 3.3 Community Assessment Steps and Methods. Review in plenary and discuss any differences between their responses to the assessment steps and those involved on the handout. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: METHODS OF COMMUNITY ASSESSMENT. Referring back to Handout 3.3, note for participants that: • Assessment methods vary but are qualitative and in the spirit of Rapid Rural Appraisal (RRA) or Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA). The RRA and PRA aapproaches should aim to incorporate the knowledge and opinions of the community members, including mothers and caregivers, in the planning and management of CMAM services including community outreach. >>Step One: Community Assessment Step Two: Formulation of Community Outreach Strategy Step Three: Development of Messages and Materials Step Four: Community Mobilisation and Training Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 49 • Access to relevant secondary information should be assessed and information reviewed. • The objective is to quickly generate usable information, not to produce a lengthy report. • The steps and methods in Handout 3.3 are a recommended minimum that can be built upon over time or if additional resources are available. Highlight the importance of gathering information on breastfeeding practices to support the management of at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months who are nutritionally vulnerable. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 50 Module 3 Learning Objective 3: Identify Key Steps in Developing a CMAM Outreach Strategy TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 3.4 Community Outreach: From Assessment to Strategy, Handout 3.5 Community Outreach Strategy, Handout 3.6 Example: Selecting Candidates for House-to-House Case-Finding, Exercise 3.3 Comparison of Case-Finding Models, and Exercise 3.4 Worksheet: Selecting Candidates for Community Outreach. BRAINSTORM: INSIGHTS FROM COMMUNITY ASSESSMENTS. Note for participants that formulation of an outreach strategy is the second step in preparation for CMAM community outreach. Ask participants to summarize some of the insights obtained from a community assessment that could help to form the basis of a community outreach strategy. Answers may include: • The objectives and nature of the CMAM service: short term or long term; nongovernmental organisation (NGO)-assisted or Ministry of Health (MOH)-run; integrated or temporary/stand-alone • Opportunities and barriers influencing participation (demand) in the community • Resources and capacities influencing the availability of services (supply), particularly with regard to community outreach. • Opinion leaders and key influencers including traditional healers, traditional birth