2018 Version 30 Module 2 Learning Objective 1: Discuss Causes and Consequences of Undernutrition and Undernutrition Terminology TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 2.1 Causal Framework of Undernutrition and Handout 2.2 Undernutrition Definitions, Indices, Indicators, and Indicator Cutoffs. BRAINSTORM: CAUSES OF MALNUTRITION. Give each participant two blank cards and ask them to think about what the causes of child undernutrition are and to write one cause on each card. Ask participants to post their cards and share their ideas. Using cards marked “Immediate,” “Underlying” and “Basic,” have participants work together to group the causes by category and to place under the correspondingly labelled card. • Immediate: e.g., food intake, illness • Underlying: e.g., food insecurity, inadequate feeding and care practices, poor sanitation/water and inadequate health services • Basic: e.g., political, cultural, religious, economic and social systems including women’s status Direct participants to Handout 2.1. Causal Framework of Undernutrition and ask participants if they can name some specific causes of undernutrition. Note to participants that these causes contribute to all forms of undernutrition, and their presence and interaction will determine how they manifest themselves in a child or a population over time. ELICITATION: UNDERNUTRITION. If covered in Module One, ask participants to define undernutrition and the forms it can take. If not, present the following points: Undernutrition is a consequence of a deficiency in nutrients in the body and can take the form of: • Acute malnutrition (bilateral pitting oedema or wasting) • Stunting • Underweight • Micronutrient deficiencies Note to participants that malnutrition comprises overnutrition (e.g., overweight and obesity) and undernutrition, but the term malnutrition is most often utilized for forms of undernutrition (e.g., acute malnutrition). Ask participants to name consequences of undernutrition (e.g., increased risk of illness, increased risk of morbidity and mortality due to weakened ability to fight illness, as well as poor growth and cognitive development). PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: ACUTE MALNUTRITION. Ask participants if they can identify the five methods commonly used to assess the nutritional status of children (if participants have no nutrition background, simply deliver the information in lecture): 1) bilateral pitting oedema; 2) MUAC; 3) WFH/WFL; 4) height-for-age (HFA)/length-for-age (LFA); 5) weight-for-age (WFA). Remind participants that these training modules focus on acute malnutrition, and nutrition vulnerability in at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months of age. Ask participants which assessment methods (above) assess acute malnutrition. • Define acute malnutrition and the cutoffs for SAM and MAM.