congestive heart failure develop or the child does not improve after 1 hour of IV therapy, give a blood transfusion (10ml/kgslowly over at least 3 hours). If blood is not available, give plasma. During the blood transfusion, nothing else should be given, so as to minimize the risk of congestive heart failure. If congestive heart failure develops (e.g. distension of the jugular veins, increasing respiratory rate or respiratory distress), give a diuretic (the most appropriate choice is furosemide (1 mg/kg) and slow the rate of transfusion. • If there are signs of liver failure (e.g. purpura, jaundice, enlarged tender liver), give a single dose of 1mg of vitamin K1 intramuscularly. As soon as the radial pulse becomes strong and the child regains consciousness, Start F 75 CAUTION: Steroids, epinephrine or nikethamide are of no value and should never be used. xciv National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Heart failure This is usually a complication of over-hydration (especially when an IV infusion or standard ORS solution is given), very severe anaemia, blood or plasma transfusion, or giving a diet with high sodium content. Diagnosis of heart failure • Clinical deterioration with weight gain • A sudden increase in liver size • Tenderness developing over the liver • An increase in respiration rate An acute increase in respiration of more than 5 breaths per minute (particular during rehydration treatment) 50 breaths per minute up to 1 year of age >40 in children 1 – 5 years • Respiration that has or develops a ‘grunting’ sounds during each expiration • Crepitations or rales in the lungs • Prominent superficial and neck veins • Engorgement of the jugular vein • Increase of oedema or reappearance of oedema during treatment • A rapid pulse, • Cold hands and feet • Cyanosis of the fingertips and under the tongue. Heart failure must be differentiated from respiratory infection and septic shock, which usually occur within 48 hours of admission, whereas heart failure usually occurs somewhat later. Treatment for heart failure • Stop all oral intake and IV fluids. The treatment of heart failure takes precedence over feeding the child. No fluid should be given until the heart failure is improved, even if this takes 24–48 hours. Small amounts of sugar water can be given orally to prevent hypoglycaemia. • Give a diuretic IV. The most appropriate