facilities are in the district, whether they provide services for severe acute malnutrition (SAM), etc. Write their responses in the appropriate column. Discuss and ask if participants can think of what the items in each column have in common. Write the intended name for each column and point out that these are the five key components of a situation analysis. Put the flip chart up on the wall to refer to as the Learning Objective progresses. READING AND REVIEW: UNDERSTANDING NUTRITION SITUATION ASSESSMENTS. Refer participants to Handout 7.3 Assessing the Nutrition Situation and ask them to read it quietly. Ask groups if they have any additions for Column 1 on the situation analysis grid produced earlier in this Learning Objective. Discuss why they would need that information and where they can find it. Write the following sources of information on the health and nutritional status of populations on the flip chart, and ask participants if they have any sources to add to the list: • Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), see https://dhsprogram.com/ • Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS), see http://mics.unicef.org/ • UN Standing Committee on Nutrition, Nutrition Information in Crisis Situations (NICS), Nutrition Survey Results Database. • Complex Emergency database on the impact of complex emergences (CE-DAT). WORKING GROUPS: PRACTICE ASSESSING A NUTRITION SITUATION. Divide participants into working groups of five or six people by district or region and explain that they will remain in these groups for much of the module’s duration. Ask groups to review the nutrition survey information that they have brought for their country/province/district and create a chart of key information on the flip chart. The chart should follow the format of the example chart below (trainer may post a blank example chart), but participants should feel free to add any additional information they think would be helpful. Ask one group to present its results in plenary, summarising the nutrition situation in its country, province or district, and pointing out any areas of concern or focus. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 125 Example Nutrition Situation Chart Source Age Group Date Geographic Area Crude Death Rate (CRD) deaths/ 10,000/ day 0 to 5 Death Rate (0-5DR) deaths under five/ 10,000 day Prevalence (%) Caseload (%) Prevalence (%) Wasting WFH < -2 zscore Severe wasting WFH < 3 z-score Bilateral Pitting Oedema MUAC <125 MUAC <110 Stunting HFA <-2 zscore Underweight WFA