NEEDS INTO A GOAL AND OBJECTIVES OF THE PROPOSED INTERVENTION. Ask participants to draft the goal and objectives of the proposed intervention based on the identified needs, including target population, geographical area and timeframe. Ask groups to discuss the type and strategy of CMAM needed in their area. Groups should determine whether the services should be short-term emergency, emergency with a view to longer-term service delivery or non-emergency service delivery. In addition, groups should discuss whether the services will be operated by an NGO or by the MOH and whether the service should be integrated into health services or should be stand-alone. Groups should reach a consensus and report back in plenary. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: LOGICAL FRAMEWORK FOR CMAM. Draw a grid on a flip chart and fill in the column headings as they appear in Handout 7.9 Example Logical Framework for CMAM. Explain that a logical framework is a simplified design and planning tool that will help to identify goals, objectives, outcomes, outputs/activities and inputs for planned CMAM services. Fill in the row headings as they appear in Handout 7.9 while explaining how each main component (goal, service objective, outcome, output/activity) differs from the others. Use Handout 7.8 Using a Logical Framework for CMAM, Sections A and B as a guide. Refer participants to Handout 7.9 and ask them to read it quietly. In plenary: • Ask if anyone can explain the difference between a “goal” and an “objective,” then between an “objective” and an “outcome,” and, finally, between an “outcome” and an “output/activity” and an “input.” Suggest that they refer to Handout 7.8 to help articulate their answers, if necessary. • Referring to the Outputs/Activities section, ask participants if they recognise the five headings (desired outcomes) under which outputs/activities appear. These are the six domains in the key elements of CMAM framework aligned with the HSS building blocks, as listed in Handout 7.1. • Ask why “assumptions” is an important category of information. What if no assumptions were made? What impact could this have on measuring results once the service or programme is operating? Referring participants to Handout 7.8, Section C, discuss the difference between performance indicators and output indicators. Answer any questions. WORKING GROUPS: PRACTICE DEVELOPING A LOGICAL FRAMEWORK. In the same working groups, ask participants to complete a logistical framework for CMAM services in their district based on the needs they determined earlier. Explain that Handout 7.1