for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women spoonfuls of RUTF before the child can be accepted for OTP. Care must however be taken to ensure the child is not forced to eat. STEP 5: Decide if the child should continue in OTP or be transferred to inpatient care If the child refuses to eat RUTF or has any medical complications he/she should be referred to inpatient care. Infants less than 6 months who meet the criteria (visibly wasted, have oedema or are too feeble to suckle effectively) should also be referred to inpatient care. If the child meets criteria for transfer to inpatient care: ▪ Explain the situation to the caretaker. ▪ Advise the caretaker to keep the child warm and give frequent small amounts of 10% sugar water and if possible give the first antibiotic dose. ▪ Complete a transfer slip (OTP to inpatient care) to the nearest inpatient unit. Give one copy to the caretaker and keep one copy for your file (Annex 7). ▪ Note the transfer to inpatient care on the OTP care and file it under “Transfers to Inpatient Care.” ▪ Inform the community health worker/volunteer of child’s transfer to inpatient care. STEP 6: Enrolment in OTP Children may be enrolled directly into the OTP if they have appetite (pass the appetite test) and have no medical complications. Explain the program and treatment to the caretaker: ▪ The purpose of the treatment/programme. ▪ Explain to the caretaker any action that will need to be taken at home and any advice for care at home. ▪ Explain how RUTF should be used using the key messages (Annex 8). Emphasise that CLEAN drinking water should be available to the child at all times. RUTF makes the child thirsty. ▪ If the mother is still breastfeeding, advise her to give the RUTF to the child after breast-feeding. Emphasise that RUTF is vital for the recovery of the child and should not be shared. ▪ Instruct the caretaker that she/he will need to bring the child back to the health facility every week (or two weeks) for medical check-ups, to be weighed to see that the child is getting better and to get the RUTF rations. ▪ Advise the caretaker to return to the OTP clinic immediately if the child refuses to eat RUTF or becomes ill. ▪ Give medicines according