planners and managers at district level plan and cost for CMAM services can be found at: https://www.fantaproject.org/tools/cmam-costing-tool. Participants will work in groups of five or six for the majority of this module, grouped by country, province, or district, with those of similar origins placed together. Ideally, each group should work on designing and planning CMAM services for its own area. If this is not possible or not appropriate, groups should select an appropriate context and geographical or administrative coverage area for which to design and plan CMAM services. Participants will stay in the same working group for all the module’s exercises. At the end of the session, participants will have developed an outline of a design and plan for CMAM in their respective areas. Participants will practice using the concepts and frameworks in this module using a case study based on a real example or using their own district or a district in their country. Participants should be asked in advance to bring relevant information for CMAM planning in their country, province, or district, and to read Case Study: Situation Analysis, Ghana before the training session. Learning Objectives Duration Handouts and Exercises 1. Describe Key Elements of CMAM and Prepare for the Planning Process 30 minutes Handout 7.1 Key Elements of CMAM Framework Aligned with the WHO Health Systems Strengthening (HSS) Building Blocks 2. Identify Key Components of a Situation Analysis and Conduct a Basic Situation Analysis 2 hours Handout 7.2 Case Study: Situation Analysis, Ghana Handout 7.3 Assessing the Nutrition Situation Handout 7.4 Mapping Matrices Handout 7.5 Capacity Grid for CMAM at the District Level Handout 7.6 SWOT Analysis for CMAM Handout 7.7 Example Capacity Grids for Outpatient Care at the Health Facility Level and for CMAM at the National Level Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 120 3. Develop a Logical Framework for CMAM 1½ hours Handout 7.1 Key Elements of CMAM Framework Handout 7.8 Using a Logical Framework for CMAM Handout 7.9 Example Logical Framework for CMAM 4. Develop an Action Plan for CMAM 2½ hours Handout 7.1 Key Elements of CMAM Framework Handout 7.10 Calculating Estimated SAM and MAM Cases Handout 7.11 Staff Needs, Roles and Responsibilities Handout 7.12 Calculating Estimated RUTF Needs Handout 7.13 Overview of Resources for CMAM Handout 7.14 Matrix for Action Planning 5. Plan for Special Cases: Transitioning and Contingencies 1¼ hours Handout 7.15 Matrix for Transition