According to the findings on the markets in the Merged Areas, the traders are mostly are dependent on the bigger markets in the settled Districts or on markets of Punjab Province for replenishing their food supplies. This is mainly due to relatively weaker market mechanisms in the Merged Areas compared to the other parts of the Province. Another reason for some of the food items not being available at times in the markets is due to fluctuations in the availability of food items in the market during the lean season. Notwithstanding the market mechanisms are relatively weak, across the Districts general food availability in the markets was found to be enough to meet the food needs of the population. The smaller local markets were found well-integrated with the bigger markets of settled Districts especially in Districts of Khyber, Mohmand, Bajaur and Kurram. In the Tribal Sub-Divisions, however, markets are almost nonexistent or there are very few markets in these areas, thus households must access markets the Table 64 : Area-wise Number of traders interviewed S/N District Traders 1 Bajaur 39 2 F.R Peshawar 30 3 FR Bannu 39 4 FR D I Khan 15 5 FR Kohat 5 6 FR Tank 19 7 Khyber 125 8 Kurram 60 9 North Waziristan 31 10 Orakzai 29 11 South Waziristan 36 12 FR Lakki 10 13 Mohmand 60 Total 498 Market mechanisms in the Newly Merged Areas are historically weaker compared to the other Districts of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Since the food production in the Merged Areas is far below its requirements, for food supply the markets are, to a greater extent, dependent on the bigger markets of the settled Districts and Punjab Province. Despite the weak market mechanisms, the general food availability in the markets is enough to meet the food needs of the population. The markets are well integrated with the bigger markets especially in Districts of Khyber, Mohmand, Bajaur, Kurram and all the Tribal SubDivisions. On the other hand, in the Tribal SubDivisions, markets are almost non-existent resulting in households accessing the markets in the adjacent settled Districts. Whereas, in almost every Merged District, there is one big market at the Tehsil level, and other smaller local markets exist within the community areas. Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 64 adjacent settled Districts. In the Merged Districts, in almost every District the