2. Is this normal? Are the other health centres neglecting this diagnosis? Or, the opposite—is there an over-diagnosis of bilateral pitting oedema here? Is this health centre in a different food economy area? Was the same observation made in previous months and in surveys? 3. Out of the overall 246 new admissions, 227 were admitted directly to outpatient care (92.3%) and 19 to inpatient care (7.7%). 3. This could be an indicator of the efficacy of “early detection” and therefore of the quality of community mobilisation. It also could indicate that children with serious conditions are hidden at households and are not reached. 4. Health centre A is not referring any patients to inpatient care. 4. This could mean that no patients required transfer, but it should be checked through supervision. 5. The death and non-recovered rates in health centre A are quite high for outpatient care. 5. This raises questions about the quality of the assessment of patients in this centre and the application of and adherence to treatment and action protocols. 6. Health centre B’s default rate is quite high and warrants follow-up to determine the reasons. 6. Perhaps mothers/caregivers decide not to return because waiting times or walking distances are too long. It will be necessary to visit the centre to determine the reasons. 7. Health centre C’s cured rate is good although there are questions about the non-recovered rate. 7. Is this related to the number of cases with bilateral pitting oedema, noted above? Could this be investigated? 8. Overall, 211 children left outpatient care during the month; 200 of these children were discharged. However, 11 were referred back to inpatient care, meaning that the conditions of 5.5% of the children under treatment in outpatient care deteriorated. 8. Why is the condition of children deteriorating when under treatment in outpatient care? Is there compliance to medicine and RUTF protocols? What health and nutrition messages are mothers/caregivers receiving? Are there other underlying health conditions that must be addressed? 9. While 17 children were referred from inpatient care to outpatient care, the outpatient care sites admitted only 14 children referred from inpatient care. Note that 11 patients were referred from outpatient care to inpatient care and 11 admissions are registered in the inpatient care site report as referred from outpatient care. 9. The difference between referrals from inpatient care and admissions to outpatient care could be due to