You remember the bad time three years ago when people came and set up tents, and all the swollen and thin children were supposed to go there. Many of them did not go, and many of them died. Now mothers/caregivers can take their children to the outpatient care site at the nearby health facility and get the treatment; everything is good. You have listened to what the others have said about the problems with getting to the hospital. You suggest that the village health committee set up a fund to help provide transportation to the hospital for mothers/caregivers and children who need it. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 153 Traditional Healer: At first, you were very resistant to the idea of the CMAM services and wondered what this strange peanut paste was. Usually mothers and fathers would bring their children to you first and go to the health facility as a last resort. You have your own traditional treatment for thin and swollen children. However, you have seen the children getting better when they go to the health facility. The CHW has taken time to explain to you how CMAM services work, and the community volunteers have shown you a lot of respect. They asked for your help in sending thin or swollen children to CMAM services. You agree with the community elder. You think the village health committee (in which you have a key role) should meet to discuss setting up a transportation fund. You also think that people coming from faraway areas should only have to go to outpatient care sites every two weeks and that the volunteers should send them to the health facility if there is any problem between sessions. Exercise 8.3 Answer Key Possible service adjustments based on group discussion with community members: Communications • Make a better effort to explain that admission in outpatient care does not always involve referring the mother/caregiver and child to the hospital (because the fear of outcomes there and of the cost is apparently very strong in the community). Be sure to explain that outpatient care is free. • Further explain that the mother and her infant under 6 months of age will receive skilled feeding support while in outpatient care. Breastfeeding is extremely beneficial to an infant under 6 months of age because breast milk contains all the nutrients (food) and water