2 .7 0 1.5 .4 0 0 1.2 2.3 1.6 .9 3.7 1.8 .4 Others 1.6 0 .2 0 0 0 0 .2 0 4.4 9.9 .4 0 0 Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 62 Rapid Market Appraisal’s Findings The Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA) also included a Rapid Traders’ Survey of all the local markets in the Merged Areas. Under this traders’ survey about 500 traders, retailers and wholesalers, in all the local markets across the Merged Areas were interviewed. Objective The overall objective of this Rapid Markets Appraisal was to understand the local markets dynamics, food demand and supply situation, and establish a markets’ perspective of the housheolds’ economic as well phsyical access to the markets. Methodology The methodology of the Rapid Markets Appraisal involved interviews of traders in all the local markets of Merged Areas of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. In each market, 4 to 5 traders were interviewed. Where possible, a combination of retailers and wholesalers were interviewed. A short checklist was designed and administered during this traders’ survey. The checklist was designed to capture information on the current food supplies availability, price levels and trader’s capacity to meet demand. Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 63 An Overview of the Markets in Merged Areas A functioning market is important for food security and livelihood of the households living in that area. Based on the survey of traders carried out in the main markets of the Districts, some key aspects of functionality of the markets were assessed including supply and demand of essential food commodities conditions, traders’ response capacity, food prices, sources of pricing information, and transportation costs. Almost all the main markets of the Districts within the 7 Districts and 6 Tribal SubDivisions were surveyed and approximately 500 traders were interviewed in all the markets. Following table provides number markets covered during the traders’ survey. Market Supply and Demand Conditions To understand the food supply mechanisms, the traders were asked about the main locations they are sourcing their food supplies. According to the findings on the markets in the Merged Areas, the traders are mostly are dependent on the bigger markets in the settled Districts or on markets of Punjab Province for replenishing their food supplies. This is mainly due to relatively weaker market mechanisms in the Merged Areas compared