significant improvement in security and the Government’s continued efforts, 97 percent of displaced families have already returned to their areas of origin18. The remaining families are from North Waziristan District and District Khyber are to be returned by June 2020, subject to an official announcement of the Government. The positive developments like merger of Merged Districts in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province has made Merged Districts the focus of attention in Pakistan. From time to time various studies have been carried out. The Food security assessment “Returning Home” by WFP in December 2014, “Indepth Food Security and Livelihoods Assessment of Returned HH in FATA” in 2017 by WFP jointly with Merged Areas Secretariat, Multi-cluster Humanitarian Needs Assessment led by UN United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs(OCHA) 2016, Vulnerability Assessment 2017 by OCHA etc. reveals that returning populations continue to be vulnerable to food insecurity for a considerable period of time and needs coordinated support to rebuild normal and stable lives. Such a s large scale return after s years of displacement impacts the overall situation including markets, provision of basic services, livelihoods and food security. Thus, the changing scenario requires an up-to date and sound understanding of the situation to guide the programming and design of more appropriate and effective responses both for immediate humanitarian needs as well as medium to longer term rehabilitation. In this is context, the Comprehensive food security & Livelihood Assessment CFSLA) was conducted in June-July 2019, under the overall leadership of the Planning & Development Department supported by Bureau of Statistics (BOS) Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Survey Management & Planning Under the overall guidance of Coordination Committee Chaired by the Additional Secretary, Planning & Development Department, the survey team was led by the Bureau of Statistics Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The Bureau of Statistics (BoS) Merged Areas was also involved in monitoring of the data collection process in the field. Prior to the household level data collection, complete households’ listing in all the areas to be surveyed was conducted . For this, the Pakistan 15 Khyber, Mohmand, Bajaur, Kurram, Orakzai, North Waziristan and South Waziristan 16 Bannu, Dera Ismail Khan, Kohat, Lakki , Peshawar and Tank 17 Provisional Summary Results of 6th Population and Housing Census 2017 18 Complex Emergency Wing (FDMA) of the PDMA KP Comprehensive Food Security and Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA), Merged Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | 5 Bureau of Statistics facilitated a one-day