or with medical complications: ▪ To stabilise any medical complications so that the child can start nutritional rehabilitation. If a child starts nutritional rehabilitation without stabilising any complications there is a high risk of mortality. Once the complications have been stabilised, children are referred to OTP to continue their rehabilitation at home. ▪ The caretaker of the child should stay with the child while he/she is in inpatient care. For infants less than 6 months: ▪ For breast-fed infants: To feed the infant and stimulate breast-feeding until the infant can be fed on breast-milk alone. ▪ For non-breast-fed infants: To nutritionally rehabilitate the infant. Screening and referral to inpatient care Children may arrive at the in-patient care facility through a number of ways: ▪ Transfers from OTP. The health care provider at OTP has used the Action Protocol and determined that the child has complications and requires transfer to inpatient care. ▪ Referrals by health care providers e.g. at health facility or hospital level. ▪ Self-referral – child is brought directly to the inpatient facility by the caretaker. Basic requirements for inpatient care WHO is qualified to run inpatient care: The staff at the inpatient care facility should include the following: 2 Management of severely malnourished children in inpatient care follows WHO protocols for Phase 1 treatment. Alongside these protocols, you may also refer to the following: WHO. Management of severe acute malnutrition: A manual for physicians and senior health workers. Geneva 1999 WHO. Management of the child with a serious infection or severe malnutrition. Geneva, 2000 WHO. Guidelines for the inpatient treatment of severe acute malnutrition. Geneva 2003 xxiii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women ▪ Trained medical staff with the ability to treat the medical complications e.g. a skilled nurse or medical doctor with experience in the inpatient treatment of severe acute malnutrition ▪ Assistant staff – these should provide 24 hour cover and should have the necessary skills to be able to take vital signs, administer the appropriate medication and monitor / record the intake of therapeutic milk ▪ Staff responsible for keeping the facility clean ▪ Staff who can prepare the therapeutic milk WHERE: Inpatient care will usually be in a district hospital or health facility where inpatient capacity is available. In an emergency it can also be established anywhere where: ▪ Children can stay