financial support from WFP and the guidance from Mr. Finbarr Curran, Representative and Country Director WFP Pakistan, Ms. Arnhild Spence Deputy Country Director WFP Pakistan and Mr. Alghassim Wurie, Head WFP Provincial Office Peshawar. The Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa dedicates this Comprehensive Food Security & Livelihood Assessment (CFSLA) to the people of the Newly Merged Areas. Mr. Shakeel Qadir Khan Additional Chief Secretary Planning & Development Department Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Page | viii Foreword Over the past several years, both the humanitarian community and Government of Pakistan have been supporting the people of the Newly Merged Areas. In 2014, as part of the government’s response the program , “Returning Home Livelihoods and Food Security of FATA Returnees” was initiated jointly by WFP and the Government. of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. This activity represents a new chapter in assessing the progress towards efforts of returning the displaced population to their places of origin. The next stage was a follow up study in 2017 titled “In-depth Food Security and Livelihood Assessment of Returned Households in FATA”. Supporting the displaced population is progressively shifting from a humanitarian priority to development priority owing to signs of improvement in law-and-order situation in Newly Merged Areas. To date 3,22,921 families have returned to their homes and approximately 16,888 families are yet to return by mid-20201. In order to bring the area at par with the rest of the country and to assist the population of Newly Merged Areas, the government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has produced the Tribal Decade Strategy 2020-2030. This goal could only be achieved through strong evidence-based efforts, cooperation and partnership between Government and Development partners. Though the efforts are remarkable and most of the families have finally returned to their homes, the food security situation remains fragile2. Thus, it is important to ensure that households are supported through short/long term recovery measures to allow them to “rebuild their lives” in a sustainable manner. The rehabilitation of Newly Merged Areas is a resource intensive and unprecedented task. . It requires a sound understanding of the complexities, logistics, and dynamics of the situation and on the ground realities. The Government is leading the initiatives on rebuilding homes, schools, health facilities, water supply schemes, agriculture and livelihoods activities. As the key findings of the assessments conducted during 2015 to 2017 revealed some positive progress in recovery of the households returned has been achieved, however, the conditions in