care. ▪ Iron/folate is given to all pregnant and lactating women on admission. ▪ Measles vaccine is given to all unvaccinated children above 6 months of age. ▪ Record the medications given in the registration book. STEP 4: Give SFP ration Nutritional treatment in SFP is given through a take home supplementary ration. This is intended to supplement the diet taken at home. Ration levels are normally determined by the national/local government according to needs and available resources (see nutritional treatment in SFP). ▪ The supplementary ration is given to the mother/caretaker to take home. ▪ Mothers/caretaker should bring containers to carry the ration or these should be provided. ▪ Ensure the SFP card is completed (the mother / caretaker takes the card home and brings it back next visit). STEP 5: Give key messages ▪ Clear advice must to be given to mothers/caretakers on how to prepare the ration. ▪ Where possible, preparation and cooking demonstrations should be given at the SFP site or in the community. ▪ Ensure the mother/caretaker understands that the ration is intended for the malnourished individual and is not to be shared. ▪ Explain how to store the ration safely. xlvii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women ▪ Make sure the mother/caretaker knows when to return to the SFP. Nutritional treatment in SFP The ration in SFP is intended to supplement the diet at home and to provide sufficient energy and nutrient density to allow for rehabilitation. The ration should provide 1000-1200 kcal/person/day with 10-12% energy from protein. Rations in SFP programs usually consist of an imported or locally produced blended food such as corn Soy Blend (CSB), wheat soy blend (WSB). Most blended foods are fortified with vitamins and minerals. They contain about 350-400kcal/100g. Oil should also be included in the ration. This is essential to ensure adequate energy. Oil should be fortified with Vitamin A. A typical basic ration for moderately acutely malnourished children consists of: Daily ration: 200-300 g blended food/person/day and 25-30 g of oil/person/day Ration for two weeks: 3-5 kg blended food and 300-450g of oil Ration for one month: 6-10kg blended food and 600-900g oil Other commodities such as sugar, powdered milk, pulses and high energy biscuits may be added to the ration depending on what is available. Sugar is already included to some blended foods. Where