which is already offering some insights into best practices and issues (see box 9). Where other complementary health and nutrition interventions are not in place, management of SAM can help to bring those issues onto the agenda. The absence of services for the management of MAM is one example, in terms of ensuring a continuum of care for acute 18 UNICEF, 2012, ‘Programming Guide: Infant and Young Child Feeding,’ www.unicef.org/nutrition/files/Final_IYCF_programming_ guide_2011.pdf 19 UNICEF and WHO, 2012, ‘Integrating Early Childhood Development (ECD) activities into Nutrition Programmes in Emergencies: Why, What and How,’ www.who.int/mental_health/emergencies/ecd_ note.pdf. Good practice: Kenya’s integrated nutrition package During 2010, Kenya adopted a package of 11 high-impact nutrition interventions focusing on infant feeding, food fortification, micronutrient supplementation and prevention and management of acute malnutrition at the health facility and community level. These essential nutrition services are integrated into routine health services and have proved efficient in preventing and addressing malnutrition and mortality in children. The package is being tested in three districts. An initial evaluation indicates that: • Ownership of nutrition interventions by the district health team generally increased and coordination for nutrition improved. • Uptake increased (in term of client numbers) for the majority of the interventions including for management of SAM. • Extensive support from partners was required to address health system weaknesses. • Increased monitoring and use of data were required to routinely identify best practices and encourage staff to modify and adapt the services. BOX 9 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 20 is based on identifying thresholds corresponding to the numbers of children with SAM that each health facility (or district) can manage with minimal long-term support. This framework is coupled with contingency agreements reached with district/subnational and national health teams on the type and intensity of additional support required, based on a detailed risk analysis – such as in supply and logistics, human resources, supervision and monitoring, data collection and analysis – and who will supply it if those thresholds are exceeded. In terms of management of SAM, this framework redefines emergencies based on the capacity of the system to manage the caseload rather than on SAM prevalence. It therefore serves to sharpen programme focus on disaster risk reduction and local capacity development as explicit strategies for the long term, contributing to resilience of communities and health systems in the face of multiple shocks. The increased decentralization of programmes for management of SAM to the