Mr. Yaqoob Qureshi, Dr. Aliya Kashif and Dr. M. Suleman Qazi) in the development of these Guidelines. Dr.Baseer Khan Achakzai DDG Health (Nutrition) Nutrition Wing, MoH. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT vi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Acute Malnutrition Wasting and/or oedematous malnutrition defined as MUAC <125mm or presence of bilateral pitting oedema. Acute malnutrition maybe moderate (MAM) or severe (SAM) Caretaker Parent or guardian of the malnourished child Community Health Worker Lady Health Workers (LHW), Community Midwifes (CMW), Female Welfare Workers (FWW), health nutrition promoters who work in the community Community Volunteer Community mobilizer at local level CMAM Community Based Management of Acute Malnutrition DHIS District Health Information System F75 Therapeutic milk used in phase 1 of treatment for severe malnutrition F100 Therapeutic milk used in transition phase and phase 2 of the treatment of severe malnutrition Health Care Provider Qualified health worker at health facility IMNCI Integrated Management of Newborn and Childhood Illnesses Inpatient care Twenty four hour medical care for children with SAM with complications IV Intravenous LHW Lady Health Worker LHV Lady Health Visitor MAM Moderate Acute Malnutrition (MUAC<125mm) MUAC Mid Upper Arm Circumference NG Naso-gastric Tube OTP Out-patient Therapeutic Programme PLW Pregnant and Lactating Women Resomal Oral rehydration solution for severely malnourished patients RUTF Ready to Use Therapeutic Food for treatment of SAM. RUTF may be imported or locally produced according to international and national specifications RUSF Ready to Use Supplementary Food for treatment of MAM SAM Severe Acute Malnutrition (MUAC<115mm and/or bilateral oedema) SFP Supplementary Feeding Programme Transfer Child is transferred from one programme component to another (e.g. OTP to inpatient care) W/L Weight for Length (used for infants < 6 months) ABBREVIATIONS & TERMS vii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Section One: Community Outreach viii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Community outreach is essential to maximise the effectiveness of a CMAM programme. It is essential for early case finding which means that children can be treated effectively as outpatients. The community should fully understand the purpose of the programme and why it is important to identify and treat malnourished children. Effective links between health facilities and the community are essential to ensure that malnourished children are appropriately identified, referred and followed