trained staff. The need to find simple mechanisms to gauge coverage levels in situations where coverage surveys are not practical or feasible is recognised. Simplified coverage survey methods are being developed and tested. In the absence of coverage surveys, some services have used simple, somewhat crude, methods to monitor coverage based on targets calculated for the total number of children expected to enrol. Others have used the number of children screened, referred or admitted as proxies. These are not ideal indicators, but they might provide some useful information when a coverage survey is not feasible. Ask participants to refer to Handout 1.2 and to read the definition for “coverage,” Ask if there are any questions. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 151 Module 8 Learning Objective 5: Monitor and Respond to Barriers to Access TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 8.10 Monitoring Barriers to Access and Exercise 8.3 Community Meeting Role-Play. GROUP DISCUSSION: BARRIERS TO ACCESS. Ask participants to speculate on possible reasons for poor coverage. Discuss how views and perceptions of the service can play a part in poor service uptake. Discuss barriers to access and remind participants of the work they did in the community assessment in Module Three. Review if necessary. Ask participants to read Handout 8.10 Monitoring Barriers to Access; answer any questions. ROLE-PLAY. INVOLVING THE COMMUNITY. Introduce the exercise to the participants by reading aloud the following introduction: The site report from the outpatient care at Health Facility 22 (Wambala district) shows a high default rate (20 percent) and a high death rate (12 percent). The health care providers at the outpatient care site are concerned about this. They also know that the mothers/caregivers of many of the children that they referred to inpatient care at the district hospital refuse to go; the health care providers suspect that the high default and mortality rates are linked to this. The nurse asks the community health worker (CHW) to organise a community discussion to get to the bottom of these issues and try to find ways to address them. Ask for nine volunteers and assign these roles: an outpatient care nurse, a CHW and a community volunteer involved in community outreach for CMAM, two mothers, a father, a grandmother of children under treatment in CMAM, a community elder and a traditional healer. Exercise 8.3 Community Meeting Role-Play (below) describes the roles. Give each