Children 6–59 Months TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 4.3 Outpatient Care: Admission Process for Children 6–59 Months, Handout 4.4 Outpatient Care Treatment Card for Children 6–59 Months, Handout 4.5 RUTF Ration Card for Children 6–59 Months, Handout 4.6 Using Outpatient Care Treatment Card and RUTF Ration Card for Children 6–59 Months, and Exercise 4.2 Outpatient Care Treatment Card and RUTF Ration Card for Children 6–59 Months. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: ADMISSION PROCESS FOR OUTPATIENT CARE. Refer participants to the overview of the outpatient care admission process in Handout 4.3 Admission Process for Outpatient Care for Children 6–59 Months. Walk participants through the steps, emphasizing the important considerations they need to take into account. Respond to questions. PRACTICE: FILLING OUT AN OUTPATIENT CARE TREATMENT CARD AND RUTF RATION CARD. Distribute a local outpatient care treatment card if one is available. Otherwise, use Handout 4.4 Outpatient Care Treatment Card for Children 6–59 Months. Note that ALL children admitted to CMAM at the outpatient care site receive an outpatient care treatment card, including those being referred to inpatient care. Explain the general column and row details on the outpatient care treatment card and the information needed to fill one out. Review the content below and on Handout 4.6 Using Outpatient Care Treatment Card and RUTF Ration Card for Children 6–59 Months. • Admission information provided on the outpatient care treatment card includes: Name, age and sex of child, name of parents, place of origin Date of admission, admission characteristics Name of health facility with outpatient care site Registration number General food distribution access Breastfeeding status Anthropometry upon admission, admission criteria examined Medical history Physical examination Vaccination status Routine admission medication Other medication • Follow-up information provided on treatment card includes: Anthropometry Medical history Physical examination RUTF appetite test Number of RUTF packets provided Treatment outcome Action taken Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 71 Refer participants to Handout 4.5 RUTF Ration Card for Children 6–59 Months and review the information found on there. Ask participants to form pairs and pass out copies of the Outpatient Care Treatment Cards and RUTF Ration Cards. Have participants complete Exercise 4.2: Outpatient Care Treatment Card and RUTF Ration Card for Children 6–59 Months. Respond to questions. Brainstorm: Weekly Sessions at Outpatient Care. Referring back to the process in Handout 4.3, ask participants to suggest which activities and procedures occur in outpatient care follow-on sessions.