Where there is little decentralization, it may be possible to assign roles centrally based on the activities required, as long as the assignments are based on successful pilot experiences. Assignments must then be effectively communicated down to regions, districts and facilities. In some cases national guidelines are used to set out specific responsibilities for specific staff though this can undermine ownership at lower levels. UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 16 technical guidance the team may need regularly. Experience shows that with proper planning this approach allows for more staff to be trained than under a traditional cascade ‘training of trainers’ approach, which has reportedly led to quality issues in some countries. This approach also frees up time and resources for supportive supervision. However, it is important to first take stock of all training events conducted in the country to assess if and where classroom training is needed; on-the-job training and learning visits may be sufficient in situations where most health workers have received classroom training with updated protocols. Select capacity development modalities If management of SAM is to become an integral part of health services, support needs to focus on building system capacities to deliver the full package of care, from prevention to management. The analysis of health systems and what system functions need to be supported and strengthened is therefore important to support the integration of SAM. While a single capacity assessment analytical framework is not yet available, UNICEF COs can assess their support to health programmes and see how that support can be extended to the management of SAM. Capacity development requirements vary by level. Some illustrative capacity development actions for each level are outlined below. These activities need to build into longer term support activities, and are best developed with specific targets and milestones to monitor progress. There may be value added in planning these capacity development activities with stakeholders engaged in health system strengthening as well, • District level: District and subnational health managers need to know how to manage SAM services within the management of their health programmes. This includes planning, logistics and supply chain management, monitoring, supervising, and analysis and reporting. Training on these aspects should be extended to other relevant staff such as information managers and pharmacists to ensure integration. Topics are typically dealt with in global training materials, but they must be adapted to address the context. • Facility level: The most effective