care for SAM with medical complications 4. Programmes for MAM (e.g., SFPs, depending on the context) POWERPOINT: HOW THE COMPONENTS OF CMAM WORK TOGETHER (Show slides 52–53.) Slide 52: Point out each of the components and ask participants why the circles are of different sizes. Explain that: • If community outreach is effective and intervention is timely, children with acute malnutrition will be identified early and most will have MAM without medical complications. They can then be referred to programmes to treat MAM. • More than 80 percent of those with SAM will have no medical complications and will qualify for outpatient care. • The few children with SAM who have medical complications or no appetite will require referral to inpatient care. GROUP DISCUSSION: HOW THE COMPONENTS WORK TOGETHER. Have participants break into groups of four to five people, show slide 52 (Components of CMAM), and ask the groups to discuss: • The component where children most at risk are treated • The component where children at medium risk are treated • The component where children at lower risk are treated Ask groups to diagram the movement of the following child among CMAM components based on the information below. Ask the questions below one at a time and make sure the groups have answered the current question before you ask the next question • Identified by community-level screener with red MUAC Where does the child go next? (outpatient care) • In outpatient care, the child is found to have red MUAC and medical complications Where does the child go next? (inpatient care) • The child’s medical complications resolve, but s/he still has red MUAC Where does child go next? (outpatient care) • The child has been in treatment for the minimum amount of time and MUAC shows s/he is now moderately malnourished Where does the child go next? (programmes for management of MAM, e.g., supplementary feeding, if available) Ask participants to discuss their own experiences with implementing the different components. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 23 Module 1 Learning Objective 5: Explore How CMAM Can Be Implemented in Different Contexts TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 1.8: Case Studies, Handout 1.9: Implementing CMAM in Different Contexts, Handout 1.10: Factors to Consider in Providing Services for the Management of SAM, and Handout 1.11: Integrating CMAM into Routine Health Services at the District Level. WORKING GROUPS: Ask