seen in septic shock. A careful history and clinical examination can usually lead to the correct diagnosis and appropriate treatment. Diagnosis of septic shock • A fast weak pulse with: • Cold peripheries (hands and feet) • Altered consciousness • Absence of signs of heart failure. Incipient septic shock: The child is usually limp, apathetic and profoundly anorexic, but is neither thirsty nor restless. Developed septic shock: The superficial veins, such as the external jugular and scalp veins are dilated rather than constricted. The veins in the lungs may also become engorged, making the lungs stiffer than normal. For this reason the child may groan, grunt, have a shallow cough and appear to have difficulty breathing. As shock worsens, kidney, liver, intestinal or cardiac failure may occur. There may be vomiting of blood mixed with stomach contents (“coffee-ground vomit”), blood in the stool, and abdominal distension with “abdominal splash”. When a child reaches this stage, survival is unlikely. Treatment of septic shock • Give broad-spectrum antibiotics -Second and third line together -For developed septic shock consider third line antibiotics, antifungal treatment and antistaphylococcal treatment • Keep the child warm to prevent or treat hypothermia • Receive sugar-water by mouth or naso-gastric tube as soon as the diagnosis is made (to prevent hypoglycaemia • The child should not be handled any more than is essential for treatment. Nor should the child be washed or bathed; after the child has defecated, his or her bottom can be cleaned with a damp cloth. Incipient septic shock: Give the child F75 by NG tube Developed septic shock: If the patient is unconscious give: • Begin IV rehydration immediately with one of the following: half-strength Darrow’s solution with 5% glucose (dextrose) Ringer’s lactate solution with 5% glucose2 0.45% (half-normal) saline with 5% glucose.2 • Give 15 ml/kg per hour. • Monitor every 10 minutes for signs of over-hydration and congestive heart failure: Increasing respiratory rate Development of grunting Increased liver size Vein engorgement xciii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women • If signs of congestive heart failure develop or the child does not improve after 1 hour of IV therapy, give a blood transfusion (10ml/kgslowly over at least 3 hours). If blood is not available, give plasma. During the blood transfusion, nothing else should be given, so as to minimize the risk of congestive