been given / prescribed. ▪ Refer to a Supplementary Feeding Programme (SFP) if available. Explain that the child will remain in SFP for 2 months. Provide a referral slip to SFP (Annex 7). If SFP is not available refer to other ongoing community health and nutrition programs and health education and communication interventions (IEC). xxi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women ▪ Children who have not recovered (not met the exit criteria) after four months in the programme should be sent to the SFP and/or other support programmes. Section Three: Inpatient Care xxii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women In-patient care provides treatment for children 6 to 59 months who are severely acutely malnourished who do not have an appetite and/or have medical complications. These children require a short period of time in inpatient care in order to stabilize their condition. The management of severe acute malnutrition with complications in inpatient care follows the WHO protocols for Phase one.2 Once stabilised, the child can continue their treatment in OTP. Average length of stay in inpatient care is 4-7 days. This will depend on the severity of the complications. Infants less than 6 months who are severely acutely malnourished or are unable to breast-feed also require specialised treatment in inpatient care. Inpatient care should be located in a health facility where 24-hour care can be provided (a hospital or a health facility with in-patient facilities). Inpatient care should be incorporated into existing health services as a component of routine services for children under five. Skilled personnel who have received the appropriate training to manage these cases are required to run inpatient care. Close supervision of these children is necessary. Cleanliness and hygiene are essential as these children are particularly vulnerable and sub-standard conditions can lead to high mortality. The inpatient facility must include a room or kitchen where therapeutic milk can be safely prepared on site. The purpose of inpatient care: For children 6 to 59 months without appetite or with medical complications: ▪ To stabilise any medical complications so that the child can start nutritional rehabilitation. If a child starts nutritional rehabilitation without stabilising any complications there is a high risk of mortality. Once the complications have been stabilised, children are referred to OTP to continue their rehabilitation