long term; nongovernmental organisation (NGO)-assisted or Ministry of Health (MOH)-run; integrated or temporary/stand-alone • Opportunities and barriers influencing participation (demand) in the community • Resources and capacities influencing the availability of services (supply), particularly with regard to community outreach. • Opinion leaders and key influencers including traditional healers, traditional birth attendants, leaders, religious leaders, teachers, grandmothers, fathers, hairdressers, shop owners, and pharmacists • Opportunities for integration with other sector initiatives including maternal and child health; reproductive health; gender-based violence and child protection; and water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) WORKING GROUPS: FROM COMMUNITY ASSESSMENT TO STRATEGY. Divide participants into four working groups. Tell them you will explain four different key findings from a community assessment in Ethiopia and want each group to discuss one finding and how the community outreach strategy can address it: 1. Locally, a variety of causes are thought to underlie swelling and wasting, and not all are foodrelated. Presumed causes include breastfeeding while pregnant, exposure to bright sunlight, malevolent spirits, and the displeasure of ancestors. 2. Local churches are often the first resort families with sick children turn to; they borrow funds for treatment. 3. All parts of the community are uncertain about the relationship between proposed outpatient care of SAM and pre-existing anthropometric screening for the targeted general ration. 4. A cadre of unpaid community health workers (CHWs) are already conducting house-to-house health education regularly, but only literate workers receive regular training. Ask each working group to report back on their findings and discuss together. Refer participants to Handout 3.4 Community Outreach: From Assessment to Strategy and compare the “implications for strategy” found in the second column with the working groups’ responses. Discuss and fill in any gaps by explaining that the community outreach strategy will be determined by several factors including: Step One: Community Assessment >>Step Two: Formulation of Community Outreach Strategy Step Three: Development of Messages and Materials Step Four: Community Mobilisation and Training Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 51 • What the needs are—as identified by the community assessment • What case-finding model will be adopted • How participants will be trained (what tools, what scope) in case-finding and sensitisation • Whether community outreach workers will be remunerated or motivated by other means • What materials and tools will be used and how they will be supplied (e.g., MUAC tapes, referral slips) • What communication channels will