season or rainy season) may exacerbate the underlying causes of malnutrition. Understanding seasonality of SAM will aid in determining where and when resources and additional support may be needed. Understanding the underlying causes of malnutrition should also be factored during the assessment of the situation particularly in geographic areas where SAM burden is particularly high. This information will be useful for advocating with relevant actors to address the concerns identified in the assessment or in planning for integration of services with SAM treatment. Identify vulnerable groups There may also be specific groups that may be particularly affected by SAM. Data, if available disaggregated by sex, socio-economic status, or livelihoods group may be able to show if specific groups exhibit a higher burden of SAM PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 7 Mapping capacity and potential partners is also one component of preparedness activities outlined in UNICEF’s Core Commitments for Children in Humanitarian Action (CCCs).10 Mobilization of this audience may need to be undertaken as a specific standalone activity, or may also be part of broader coordination and planning in countries. It is important at this stage to mobilize as wide an audience as possible (see box 1) and to maintain a multisectoral approach to ensure that stakeholders or potential stakeholders outside the traditional health and nutrition sectors are not missed. It is also important to seek representatives from subnational levels, as they will have a different 10 UNICEF, 2010, ‘Core Commitments for Children in Humanitarian Action’, www.unicef.org/publications/index_21835.html. which might necessitate specific targeting of programming in order to equitably reach the population. Step 2. Map, mobilize and consult Map and Mobilize partners An important stage of scale-up is mapping, mobilizing and involving partners, including government departments, United Nations agencies, international and national NGOs, academic and training institutions, donors and the private sector. The aim is to assemble a group of practitioners who can be fully briefed and oriented on the approach and help to direct the assessment of the extent of SAM in the country and of the bottlenecks that impede treatment. This should be the same group that will develop scale-up plans and put them into practice. Guidance point: Partners to include in consultations • Relevant MoH sections: includes clinical services, infectious/communicable diseases, health promotion, information management, HIV, not just the section with primary responsibility for nutrition • Private sector: health providers (particularly where they are numerous) and those with