estimated based on height. The standard international proxy for children 59 months is 110 cm. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: BILATERAL PITTING OEDEMA. Describe how bilateral pitting is assessed (see Handout 2.4), noting that it is important that both feet are tested. If it is neither bilateral nor pitting, the oedema is not of nutrition origin. Describe the three grades of bilateral pitting oedema. Discuss how to assess bilateral pitting oedema grades ++ and +++. Note that participants will have the opportunity to assess bilateral pitting oedema in field site visits. Underline the importance of a second opinion in cases where bilateral pitting oedema is present. PRACTICE: RECOGNISING BILATERAL PITTING OEDEMA. Refer participants to Exercise 2.1 Grades of Bilateral Pitting Oedema. Have the participants work in pairs to look at the photos and identify the severity of the bilateral pitting oedema. Review answers together. Exercise 2.1 Grades of Bilateral Pitting Oedema (with answers) PHOTO 1 Bilateral pitting oedema + This child has bilateral pitting oedema in both feet. This is grade + (mild). But the child might have grade ++ or +++, so the legs and face also should be checked. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 35 PHOTO 2 Bilateral pitting oedema ++ This child’s feet, lower legs, hands and lower arms are swollen. This is grade ++ (moderate). PHOTO 3 Bilateral pitting oedema +++ This child has generalised bilateral pitting oedema, including feet, legs, arms, hands and face. This is grade +++ (severe). DEMONSTRATION: USING MUAC TAPE. Refer participants to Handout 2.4 Assessing Age, Bilateral Pitting Oedema, MUAC, Weight and Height/Length. Ask how many participants have used a MUAC tape. Pass out MUAC tapes to participants and review briefly the cutoffs for SAM and MAM and how to find the measures on the tape. Demonstrate how to use MUAC tapes, outlining the process described in Handout 2.4, Section 3. Explain the meaning of the colours on the MUAC – red (SAM), yellow (MAM) and green (normal nutritional status). Ask participants to practice on each other. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: MEASURING WEIGHT AND HEIGHT/LENGTH. Show participants the Salter scale and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) UNISCALE, noting that they will encounter these scales in the field and have the opportunity to practice. For the Salter scale, outline the considerations in Handout 2.4, Section 4. For the UNISCALE, briefly outline how the child can be weighed in the mother/caregiver’s