this must be immediately addressed by training and discussion with community providers. ▪ In widely dispersed communities, volunteers may have to travel large distances to visit remote villages. This should be considered when developing an outreach strategy. A transport stipend may need to be included. ▪ In emergency situations or where there are large numbers of volunteers working for different agencies, case finding should be coordinated. Follow-up visits Community providers play an important role in tracing children who are absent or have defaulted and encouraging the caretakers to return. Children who have static weight or have lost weight also require follow up at home. In order for follow up to be effective, there must be good linkage between the health facility and community providers. Community providers should be present at the OTP day to facilitate this link. A simple home visit form can be completed in duplicate. (Annex 2) ▪ To ensure linkages between health care providers (health facility) and the community ▪ Conduct home visits when a child is absent or defaulted or if there are other reasons for follow up as determined by the health care provider ▪ Ensure children are referred for further care/other programs ▪ Give feedback to health care providers xi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Section Two: Outpatient Therapeutic Programme (OTP) xii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women The Outpatient Therapeutic Programme (OTP) is treatment at home for children with severe acute malnutrition with appetite and without medical complications. The majority (about 85%) of severely malnourished children without complications can be treated at home without the need for referral to inpatient care. The mother/caretaker visits the health facility or OTP point every week or two weeks with their child for a medical check up and to receive a weekly (or fortnightly) supply of ready to use therapeutic food (RUTF) which is specially designed and prepared for severely malnourished children. OTP should be operated in as many health facilities as possible and should be incorporated into existing health services as a component of routine services for children under five. This ensures good geographic coverage so that as many malnourished children as possible can access treatment. Children can be admitted to OTP at any time if they present at the health facility. They