for (admissions) and client compliance (attendance) in the programme. The methods recommended to conduct this community enquiry are detailed in Module 3147 of the FANTA/ Valid/UNICEF CMAM training modules. This kind of enquiry is particularly important because whom to involve in CMAM and how at the community level cannot be prescribed. Conducting investigation of possible community agents and channels, and engaging in a process of sensitizing them about the programme and eliciting their involvement are critical steps for formulating a community mobilization component of the programme at the local level and therefore of achieving programme coverage. 147 FANTA, et al., 2008, ‘Community Outreach Training Manual. Module 3’, www.cmamforum.org/resource/973. ANNEX B 79 Key questions for health system capacity analysis TABLE 6 Category Determinant Key questions Enabling Environment Politics and policy • What nutrition, health and development policies and strategies are in place? • How is management of SAM already reflected in and supported by them/or not? Coordination and management • What are the current nutrition coordination mechanisms – remits and reach? • How good is participation across the sectors? Social norms • What are the beliefs and norms of behaviour associated with malnutrition? Costing and financing • What are the main funding sources for management of SAM and for other related nutrition and health programmes? • Are funds allocated at central, regional or district levels? • What is the funding cycle and process? • Are there possibilities to mobilize funds from elsewhere? • How reliable is funding (shortor long-term)? Supply Supply chain • What are the sources of supplies (e.g., local and offshore) and what potential is there for increase in production/supply? • How are therapeutic supplies ordered and managed? • Are there any structures in place for other commodities that could have capacity to store therapeutic supplies? • How is information on the supply chain communicated between levels? • What storage capacity is in place at central, regional, district and facility levels? • What systems for quality control are in place? Service delivery/ availability • What structures and systems are in place for implementation of outpatient and inpatient therapeutic care (public and private)? • How are they staffed and managed? • What structures, equipment and supplies do they have? • What systems are in place for free health care? • How the different services are managed (i.e., division of roles, days, facilities)? Human resources Competencies for CMAM • Who is