and quality) • Assess coverage (treatment coverage and geographic coverage) and barriers to coverage so the programme design can be adjusted and measures put in place to remove barriers during scale-up • Facilitate sharing of experiences among stakeholders to assess the success of different programme design strategies and implementation modalities • Identify mistakes, major challenges and bottlenecks being faced multiple districts and then gradually expanding to all district facilities over a period of time. This approach is implemented in response to pressure to expand, the need to scale-up SAM management in non-emergency contexts and in situations of scale-up without substantial NGO support at district level. While support required is less than the previous approach, this approach has major implications for initial performance, as implementing management of SAM in just a few dispersed facilities reduces coverage, early detection and full compliance with treatment. • Phased approach: Under this approach, the district health team builds its capacity to manage the programme as it gradually expands the number of facilities (see box 4). In contrast to the previous approach, the expansion is planned and based on specific criteria. This modality works as long as the expansion takes place relatively quickly, such as over a few months, so that quality can be addressed. Such a planned progression also allows for establishment of good practices at limited sites, which can then serve as learning/ training sites. Treatment coverage can then be achieved throughout the district, especially if measures to assess coverage and improve poor coverage are implemented. Based on a consideration of these approaches, during the planning process participants will need to build consensus on the specific objectives for scale-up. Specific objectives reported to date range from scaling up nationally to scaling up in high burden areas only. Stakeholders will also need to agree on targets in terms of the time frame and indicators for achieving the objectives, based on the agreed pace and reach of scale-up (see box 5). Incorporate review and learning during scale-up An external review of implementation of SAM treatment in a country is critical when expanding from limited to implementation at national Guidance point: A phased approach to scale-up A phased approach has proved a successful way to drive scale-up while maintaining quality (for e.g., in Malawi). In this approach. expansion to new districts and within districts is based on specific criteria such as: • Demand from the district and/or