admissions and performance to see if particular areas need investigation or support. Divide participants into pairs and ask them to refer back to Exercise 8.1(b) Outpatient Care Site Reporting Sheet. Have the pairs calculate the percentages that each exit category (Discharges [E]) comprises of the total exits (Total Exits [G]). Explain that analysis of the site reports provides information about the performance of the CMAM service for the individual health facility and the district as a whole. The admission and summarised performance indicators can point to areas that need investigation and support. For example, they might find that the service has very high default rates. Once known, ways can be found to address the problems and strengthen the service. Ask the pairs to draw any conclusions they can from the data. Discuss in plenary. Note to participants that Sphere minimum standards might not apply to (or be realistic for) CMAM services operated by the MOH as part of routine health services. However, in the absence of other comparisons, Sphere minimum standards can be used as benchmarks to determine performance and service quality. BRAINSTORM: INDICATORS FOR OUTPATIENT CARE. Ask participants, still working in pairs, to take five minutes to list performance and output indicators for outpatient care. Remind participants of the work they did in developing logical frameworks in Module Seven. Ask one pair to share some indicators and ask other groups to share only additional information. Write responses on the flip chart. READING AND REVIEW: CMAM INDICATORS. Refer participants to Handout 8.8 CMAM Indicators and ask them to read quietly. When they have finished, ask them if they have any modifications for the indicators identified in the exercise above. GROUP DISCUSSION: PROGRAMME EFFECTIVENESS. Ask participants how the CMAM service/programme is effective. Follow up by asking participants whether the CMAM service/programme can be considered effective if only half the children who require treatment actually access it. (Service performance plus coverage determines programme effectiveness). PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: COVERAGE. Explain to participants that it is important to determine coverage levels to see whether the service/programme is reaching children who need treatment. Coverage is one of the most important indicators of how well a service is meeting needs. A service might be of very good quality, with very few deaths, low default rates and high recovery rates. But, if the service is reaching only 30 percent of the children who need treatment, then it cannot