2012 A low-cost job aid to help front line health workers correctly assess acute malnutrition based on weight and height using the WHO standards. MONITORING AND REPORTING Suggested reporting formats for management of SAM UNICEF 2008 Suggested minimum reporting formats for use in integrated CMAM programmes (inpatient and outpatient together). Useful for the development/amendment of national reporting systems. Nutridash171 UNICEF 2012a, 2013 A specific tool for data capture and analysis of the global situation for the management of SAM. It uses a simple set of key indicators collected at country level and entered into a web-based system of collation, analysis, and interpretation at HQ and regional office level. The Minimum Reporting Package172 SCUK 2012 A monitoring and reporting tool developed for NGO emergency SFPs (which includes modules on management of SAM on an inpatient and outpatient basis where those SFPs are delivered as part of CMAM programmes). It contains reporting categories, definitions and indicators and the package includes guidelines, software and a software manual. Therapeutic Feeding Programme. Performance monitoring scorecard assessment.173 Government of Ethiopia and partners Developed in Ethiopia in partnership with UNICEF, NGOs and regional authorities, to guide joint field supervision which includes a system for grading sites according to support needs. TRAINING (For use at country level, content should be crosschecked with standards and guidelines developed subsequently, including the updated 2013 WHO recommendations for SAM treatment) Training guide for community-based management of acute malnutrition (CMAM). Nov 2008. English & French174 FANTA/Valid International/ UNICEF 2008 A resource for planning and running CMAM trainings for health care managers and health care providers who manage, supervise and implement services for the management of SAM. Training course on the management of severe malnutrition (with 2009 update)175 WHO 2002 & 2009 A resource for the planning and running of training on the inpatient management of SAM for health care providers. Integration of IYCF support into CMAM. Training facilitators guide and handouts. 2009. English, French176 IASC/IFE/ENN 2009 A resource for the planning and delivery of training for health care personnel and community workers in the integration of counselling on recommended IYCF practices within CMAM. It comprises facilitator notes and handouts for a 1.5 day training which is best conducted as part of a refresher training of experienced CMAM staff Harmonised training package (HTP): Module 13. Management of severe acute malnutrition. May 2011177 GNC/ENN 2011 A training resource and technical reference document for the management