and pregnant and lactating women STEP 4: Inpatient care admission ▪ Explain the situation to the caretaker and make sure he/she consents to stay in in-patient care. ▪ Fill out an inpatient card. ▪ Assign a number (use the same number on the transfer slip if child is from OTP). ▪ Keep the child warm. Use blankets and a hat. STEP 5: Give routine medicine Routine medicines are given to all children admitted to in-patient care if they have not already been given in OTP. See Annex18 (routine medicines in inpatient care). Note the following: ▪ First dose of antibiotics is given in OTP. Where this has not been done, children should receive amoxicillin as first line. Routine antibiotics are given to all children on admission to inpatient care. Second line antibiotics are used according to clinical judgement. Children not responding to amoxicillin plus gentamycin should receive chlorenphenicol/cephalosporin ▪ Malaria treatment if symptomatic/tested according to national protocols (Annex 13). ▪ Mebendazole/Abendazole) should be given ON EXIT if patient is discharged to OTP or on day 7 if the child is still in inpatient care. ▪ It is not advisable to give additional zinc as there is enough in the F75 milk and in RUTF. If a local dietary preparation is used then check the zinc content. ▪ Measles vaccination for unvaccinated children should be given to children admitted to inpatient care from 6 months of age: Second dose should be given at the OPT at week 4. If there is no OTP and the child will complete treatment in the inpatient facility, the second dose may be given on discharge. STEP 6: Assess and treat any complications During the full medical examination, particular attention should be given to assessment of the following conditions which are closely associated with severe acute malnutrition. ▪ Dehydration ▪ Septic shock ▪ Congestive heart failure ▪ Hypoglycaemia ▪ Severe Anaemia ▪ Hypothermia ▪ Dermatitis of kwashiorkor Treatment of the complications listed above can be found in Annex 19. Children with other underlying medical conditions may present as severely malnourished. Severely malnourished children should first be treated according to the protocol for the management of severe acute malnutrition. Those that fail to respond to this treatment should be referred for further medical investigation. Care should be taken in prescribing drugs to severely malnourished children. They have abnormal kidney and liver function and changed levels of enzymes