measurement, medical assessment, supply of RUTF) How nutritionally vulnerable at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months are managed and monitored in outpatient care follow-on sessions (feeding assessment, medical assessment, anthropometric measurements, counselling, and feeding support) 2. Discuss with staff the following: What do they like and dislike about the CMAM service? How does this service affect their overall workload? What shortcomings or problems do they see with the service? How do they work with outreach workers (e.g., CHWs, volunteers)? How do they link with other health services (e.g., expanded programme of immunisation [EPI], HIV testing and counselling)? What type of support is provided to the child’s family after the child is discharged (e.g., social protection including cash transfers, agricultural support, infant and young child feeding [IYCF] counselling) 3. Talk with mothers/caregivers: How did they find out about the service? What do they like and dislike about the service? Activity: Feedback on Field Visit Session After the field visit, conduct a feedback session in which participants will: • Provide feedback on strengths observed at each outpatient care site visited • Raise issues for clarification by facilitators • Identify key gaps that need more observation time Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 27 MODULE TWO: DEFINING AND MEASURING ACUTE MALNUTRITION Module Overview This module reviews common nutrition and anthropometric terms and the causes of undernutrition and provides practical skills on how to measure acute malnutrition, and nutrition vulnerability in at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months of age. The module will give field implementers an overview of methods used to determine the nutritional status of an infant or child: testing for bilateral pitting oedema; using mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC), weight, height, and age as measures; and assessing feeding in infants under 6 months. Proficiency in these skills is critical for identifying infants and children who might be eligible for management. Hands-on practice using these methods will be provided in the field visits to outpatient care sites in Module Four. Learning Objectives Duration Handouts and Exercises 1. Discuss Causes and Consequences of Undernutrition and Undernutrition Terminology 30 minutes Handout 2.1 Causal Framework of Undernutrition Handout 2.2 Undernutrition Definitions, Indices, Indicators, and Indicator Cutoffs 2. Identify the Clinical Signs of Acute Malnutrition 15 minutes Handout 2.3 Clinical Manifestations of Acute Malnutrition 3. Measure, Calculate, and Classify Acute Malnutrition 1 hour, 15 minutes (1¼ hours) Handout 2.4 Assessing Age, Bilateral