Further resources on the supply chain are listed in annex E. BOX 23 UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 38 Resources like the CMAM forum39 and en-net40 (see page 54) or consultation with regional or headquarters nutrition advisors or international experts are useful to ensure addressing gaps in guidance during the guideline development process. Accompanying tools and job aids, including agreed monitoring and reporting formats, and supervision checklists and specific training materials, are equally critical tools for national capacity development. A number of global tools and resources can be adapted for country use (see annex E). As with guidelines, the process of adapting tools is essential to ensure they reflect best practices and are appropriate for the context. This process is best overseen by the national working group for management of SAM. In non-emergency contexts, the challenge is to ensure smooth referral between community, 39 See http://www.cmamforum.org/ 40 http://www.en-net.org/ perceptions that mobilization is not essential, (b) insufficient funds or expertise, (c) concerns about overburdening the health system or (d) lack of leadership by the MoH. As noted earlier, a focus on the health system can create these difficulties, as mechanisms for mobilization may often lie outside its traditional realm. Some measures that can help enhance demand creation are given in box 24. Community agents/volunteers are an excellent tool for identifying children and following up with them. The challenges are the amount of work required of them, particularly in terms of the geographic area or number of households they are expected to cover. Some measures that have been used to address issues of motivation and workload of community agents are in box 25. Quality Protocols and guidance Common bottlenecks in protocols and guidance include: • Gaps in content of national protocols and guidance38 • Limited application of or adherence to protocols and guidance • Unclear protocols and systems for referral between components. Developing or updating national guidelines is a necessary step in building consensus and buyin for the approach to management of SAM, adapting the approach to the country context and reflecting management of SAM in policy. This process should be as participatory as possible, involving both regional and national actors, as this will increase ownership of the guidelines and adherence to them. Though good international resources exist, they should never be imposed without consultation and adaptation. 38 Gaps could include limited guidance for the treatment of one form of malnutrition (e.g., SAM)