and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) UNISCALE, noting that they will encounter these scales in the field and have the opportunity to practice. For the Salter scale, outline the considerations in Handout 2.4, Section 4. For the UNISCALE, briefly outline how the child can be weighed in the mother/caregiver’s arms. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: MEASURING HEIGHT/LENGTH. (Note: In cases where bilateral pitting oedema and MUAC are used for admission criteria, adapt the training to reflect the national guidelines.) Show participants the height board and note that length is measured for children under two or with a height below 87 cm, while height is measured for children over two or with a height above 87 Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 36 cm. Describe the procedure outlined in Handout 2.4, Section 5. Note that in the case of children over two who are unable to stand, the measure will be taken lying down. In this case an adjustment downward of 0.7 cm is made to the measurement. PARTICIPATORY LECTURE: CALCULATING WFH/WFL Z-SCORE. Refer participants to Handout 2.5 Weight-for-Height/Length Tables for Field Use and ask participants if they are familiar with the tables. If not, carefully review the WFH/WFL tables with them. Demonstrate step-by-step on a flip chart the process of how to determine WFH/WFL z-score: 1. Determine the age of the child in order to decide whether to use the length table or the height table. Remind participants that if a child over the age of 2 (or over 87 cm) must be measured lying down for whatever reason, subtract 0.5 cm from the measurement. 2. Find the child’s height in the height column if using the height table or child’s length in length column if using the length table. Note that length and height measurements ending on one decimal are rounded up or down: 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4 are rounded down to 0.0 cm 0.5, 0.6, 0.7 0.8, 0.9 are rounded up to 1.0 cm 3. Looking at the right side of the chart for a girl or the left side of the chart for a boy, find the median weight for a child of that height or length. Determine whether the weight of the child is above or below -1, -2, -3 or -4 standard deviations (SDs). 4. Calculate the exact z-score by subtracting the median weight from the child’s weight and dividing by the