began • The child must not have oedema. Diagnosis of shock with dehydration in the marasmic child When there is definite dehydration based on the history and the examination and: • A weak or absent radial pulse. • Cold hands or feet. Then the child is going into shock. When, in addition to the above signs there is also decrease in level of consciousness so that the child is semi-conscious or cannot be roused. This is severe shock. Diagnosis of dehydration in the child with Kwashiorkor (odematus malnutrition) Odematous patients cannot be dehydrated though they are frequently hypovolaemic. This is due to dilation of blood vessels with a low cardiac output. If a child with kwashiorkor has definite watery diarrhoea and the child is deteriorating clinically (with excessive weight loss more than 2% of the body weight per day) then the fluid lost can be replaced using 30ml of ReSoMal per watery stool. lxxxix National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Treatment of dehydration in the marasmic child Wherever possible children should be rehydration orally as the use of IV fluids can lead to fluid overload very easily resulting in the death of the child. IV infusions should only be used where there is severe shock with loss of consciousness from confirmed dehydration. Management in based on an accurate measurement of weight. Weight of the child should be taken on an infant scale or a hanging scale for older children. Clothing (except underclothes) should be removed. Use ReSoMal to treat rehydration in acutely malnourished children. This usually comes in ready prepared packets which are mixed with water. Where pre-packaged ReSoMal is not available, it can be made as follows: ReSoMAL recipe Ingredient Quantity Standard WHO -ORS One packet (1 litre packet) CMV (mineral-vitamin mix) 1 red scoop (6g) Sucrose (sugar) 50g Water 2000ml (two litres) During re-hydration breastfeeding should not be interrupted. ReSoMal should be administered as follows: First 2 hours: • Give 5ml/kg of ReSoMal every 30 minutes. Children who can drink may be given the required amount as sips or by spoon every few minutes. Malnourished children are weak and quickly become exhausted, so they may not continue to take enough fluid voluntarily. If this occurs, the solution should be given by NG tube at the same rate. See ReSoMal protocol below Every 30 minutes assess • Clinical