two communities to hold eight two-hour meetings in the communities. Four meetings will be held simultaneously in each community. Ideally, two communities that are very different from each other (e.g., environment, ethnicity, accessibility) should be selected, but the degree of local heterogeneity and availability of resources—especially transportation—will determine whether this is possible. • Pointers: Explain to the community leaders that the purpose of the meetings is to train health care managers and providers to consult with the community and that they will be asking community members about nutrition practices. Select seven people for each community group. If possible, have the mother/caregiver groups include women who are from different parts of the community but are likely to be comfortable talking together. The groups should not end up being dominated by one individual. The interviews should be conducted where they are unlikely to be disturbed by curious onlookers. This need not necessarily be inside. It is best to avoid any spot connected with a powerful force such as the community council or the church/mosque. The interview sites in each community should be separate enough so as not to disturb each other but close enough for the facilitator to circulate between them. • While making arrangements for the locations, secure translators for each of the interview groups, assuming that the participants are not native speakers of the local language(s). This can be difficult, since good translation is a matter of temperament as well as of language competence. It should be sufficient for translators to be competent in spoken English; it is not necessary to use professional translators or individuals who have advanced knowledge of written English. • One to two days in advance, the facilitators should re-familiarise themselves with the content of Module 3, especially the sections on conducting community assessment, formulating an outreach strategy, and developing messages and materials. • One to two days in advance, the facilitators should develop three simple interview guides (lists of questions) covering questions for community leaders; extension workers, CHWs and volunteers; and the two community mothers/caregiver groups. Facilitators will need to tailor the questions to local contexts. • The evening before the practicum, assign each participant to one of the eight groups. Ask the participants to designate two moderators/interviewers and one recorder for each group. Distribute the interview guides and ask the participants to review them and become comfortable with the content before the interviews. Have