Ration Cards. Have participants complete Exercise 4.2: Outpatient Care Treatment Card and RUTF Ration Card for Children 6–59 Months. Respond to questions. Brainstorm: Weekly Sessions at Outpatient Care. Referring back to the process in Handout 4.3, ask participants to suggest which activities and procedures occur in outpatient care follow-on sessions. (Answer: All activities and procedures should be included except for assigning a registration number, which occurs only at admission, and measuring height/length, which occurs only once per month if WFH/WFL is used). Emphasize that during each session, it is essential to determine whether referral or follow-up home visits are necessary and explain the following points: • The mother/caregiver and child should return to a heath facility that provides outpatient care for SAM without medical complications on a weekly basis. If there is a problem with attendance due to distance or other reasons, it might be necessary to ask the mother/caregiver to come to outpatient care every two weeks; if this is the case the mother/caregiver should receive a two-week supply of RUTF. • Bilateral pitting oedema is assessed and MUAC and weight are taken at each weekly outpatient care follow-on session. Height/length is measured once per month if it is necessary to calculate WFH/WFL z-score to reassess anthropometric status. • The appetite test is done at every session. • A nutrition and medical assessment (i.e. anthropometry, medical history, breastfeeding assessment for children 6–23 months, physical examination) is done at every outpatient care follow-on session. • Complete doses of routine medicines are given according to routine medical protocols (this is covered in Learning Objective 4). • An outpatient care action protocol is followed to determine whether referral or a follow-up home visit is needed (this is covered in Learning Objective 8). • Additional medications given during outpatient care follow-on sessions should be noted on the outpatient care treatment card. • RUTF is provided according to the child’s weight, and the mother/caregiver is counselled on its use. • The mother/caregiver is asked whether the child has eaten all the RUTF. If there are some packets left over from the previous week, the health care provider reduces the amount of RUTF given by that number of packets. For example, if the mother/caregiver has three packets left from a 14-packet ration, 11 packets are provided for the next week. The health care provider also should collect empty RUTF packets. • The health care provider