giving iron once the child has an appetite and is gaining weight (usually after 1 4days). The following doses should be given: Age Group Dose Duration < 2 years 25 mg iron + 100-400 µg folic acid daily 3 months 2-12 years 60 mg iron + 400 µg folic acid daily 3 months CAUTION: Increasing anaemia and heart failure or respiratory distress is a sign of fluid overload and an expanding plasma volume – the heart failure is not being caused by the anaemia; these patients should never be given a straight transfusion of blood or even packed cells Do not give iron during the initial phase of treatment, as it can have toxic effects and may reduce resistance to infection. Monitoring the child with severe anaemia Monitor for signs of transfusion reactions. If any of the following signs develop during the transfusion, stop the transfusion: • Fever • Itchy rash • Dark red urine • Confusion • Shock Monitor the respiratory rate and pulse rate every 15 minutes. If either of them rises, transfuse more slowly. Following the transfusion, if the Hb remains less than 4 g/dl or between 4 and 6 g/dl in a child with continuing respiratory distress, DO NOT repeat the transfusion within 4 days. In mild or moderate anaemia, oral iron should be given for two months to replenish iron stores BUT this should not be started until the child has an appetite and is gaining weight (usually after 14 days). xcvii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women xcviii National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Hypothermia Severely malnourished children are highly susceptible to hypothermia. The room where children are treated should be warm especially at night (between 28 and 32°c). There should be adequate blankets. Windows and doors should be shut at night. Diagnosis of hypothermia • Rectal temperature below <35.5°c/<96F • Under arm temperature < 35 °C/95F Treatment of hypothermia • Use the skin to skin technique for children with a caretaker. Place the child on the front of the mother / caretaker with the mothers / caretakers arms wrapped round the child. The mother / caretaker and the child are wrapped in blankets together. Give hot drinks to the mother / caretaker so her skin gets warmer • Put a hat