(see box 30). Management of SAM is also supported by the UNICEF approach to humanitarian action, which stresses the importance of improving coverage (a key feature of CMAM) and enhancing the policy environment and risk reduction through support to national capacities and systems. The UNICEF disaster risk reduction approach74 has the longer term 73 UNICEF, Core Commitments for Children in Humanitarian Action, 2010, www.unicef.org/publications/index_21835.html. 74 UNICEF, 2011, ‘Disaster Risk Reduction Programme Guidance Note,’ https://intranet.unicef.org/Emops/EMOPSSite.nsf/root/ Page0502. CCC programme actions for management of SAM Preparedness • Establish integrated guidelines for management of acute malnutrition. • Assess coverage of services for management of SAM and establish a contingency supply and distribution plan. • Map community capacities and communication channels to identify the most effective ones for nutrition information. Response • Support development of capacity for management of SAM at community and facility levels. • Initiate and support additional therapeutic feeding as required to reach the population in need. • Support and establish systems for community mobilization and identification and referral of acute malnutrition cases. Early recovery • Initiate discussion on national policy, strategy and guidelines for sustainable management of SAM, if not already in place. • Include routine monitoring of data from malnutrition management programmes to support introduction, reinforcement and/or adaptation of nutrition information systems. BOX 30 SAM MANAGEMENT: INFORMATION FOR PROGRAMMING 49 UNICEF has taken this up as a key role, involving collaboration among country and regional offices and headquarters. Together with WHO, UNICEF has coordinated training for inpatient care and the communitybased approach and mediated discussions over the RUTF patent issue. UNICEF has also allocated substantial funding to countries to support SAM management, including costs for procurement and transport of RUTF. In addition UNICEF has been instrumental in developing quality standards for RUTF production, for inspection of production facilities and for diversification of global producers the most disadvantaged. The focus is on the first 1,000 days of life, which is the most crucial time to meet a child’s nutritional requirements and prevent the longand short-term consequences of both wasting and stunting. UNICEF supports the scale up of nutrition interventions, such as community prevention and management of SAM, within the broader context of the principles of the SUN movement. The new Strategic Plan reflects strategies to continue the scale-up and integration of SAM management into routine services. It emphasizes the need to move away from vertical implementation to horizontal implementation that is