a referral slip. Transportation should be arranged where possible. Once the child recovers, the child will return to the SFP. It is important to explain to the mother/caregiver why the child is being sent to the hospital and what s/he can expect. Child C Question: Child C, a boy age 8 months, was admitted to the SFP with a MUAC of 116 mm. After four weeks (third weighing), the child has lost weight and MUAC is now 114. The child has diarrhoea and some appetite. You want to send the child to outpatient care, but the mother/caregiver refuses to go. How would you deal with this? Answer: The mother/caregiver might prefer the SFP to outpatient care because the food the SFP provided can be used for the whole family or because the SFP requires attendance only every two weeks Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 115 or every month. Explain carefully to the mother/caregiver the need for and advantages of outpatient care treatment. In most cases, once the mother/caregiver sees that the child rapidly improves in outpatient care, the issue will resolve itself. If distance is the issue, it might be possible to provide ready-to-use therapeutic food (RUTF) every two weeks instead of weekly. The mother/caregiver could also receive a family ration while the child is in outpatient care, if available. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 116 Module 6 Wrap-Up and Module Evaluation Review learning objectives and complete evaluation form. • Review the learning objectives of the module. In this module you have: 1. Described programmes for the management of MAM and how they are relevant to CMAM 2. Identified admission and discharge criteria for the management of MAM 3. Discussed medical treatment and nutrition rehabilitation for the management of MAM 4. Practiced making referrals from supplementary feeding to outpatient or inpatient care • Ask for any questions and feedback on the module. Let participants know that they will have an opportunity to observe procedures and discuss with staff during the supplementary feeding field visit. • Finally, ask participants to complete the module evaluation form. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 117 Module 6 Supplementary Feeding Field Visit Overview • A maximum of five participants should be at each supplementary feeding site on a given day. Coordinate with as many sites as necessary to