universal health coverage with equity. This DHSS approach can be adapted and used by COs, programme coordinators, partners and health management teams and can incorporate management of SAM into the relevant health package. The approach simultaneously provides: • A structured and straightforward way to operationalize UNICEF’s equity-focused strategy to achieve the MDGs for young child survival and development • A set of tools and indicators to improve monitoring, planning and implementation at the local level for programmes and their key interventions (e.g., community case management of childhood illness, CMAM, IYCF) • An integrated, flexible and systematic way to improve the coverage and quality of effective health interventions for children and mothers while strategically strengthening the health system • A quick and reliable set of common indicators to monitor progress frequently in underserved settings and to adjust partners’ assistance to countries in a coordinated fashion. The approach is flexible and can be adapted to respond to diverse health systems, local needs and contexts. The aim is to identify subpopulations not being reached and address the bottlenecks they face in accessing proven lifesaving interventions. This is achieved by engaging with district management teams, stakeholders and civil society to foster participatory, evidence-based and equity-focused planning, implementation and monitoring in the health district. This process enables subnational managers to assess the root causes of bottlenecks. They can then prioritize and implement feasible solutions through annual plans that are monitored in real time by all stakeholders, allowing evaluation of the results obtained, especially for poor and marginalized people. This four-step approach is often abbreviated as DIVA: • Diagnose/investigate: A modified Tanahashi model identifies inequities and health system bottlenecks across different population subgroups, locations and geographic areas; proximate and contributory causes are analysed and prioritized; and evidence-based and context-sensitive solutions and strategies are developed to overcome bottlenecks that are amenable to subnational actions. • Intervene/implement: Chosen solutions and strategies are integrated into the subnational plan to ensure full ownership; subnational management competencies and practices are enhanced to optimize performance; and community participation and stakeholder engagement are supported to ensure shared accountability for equitable results. • Verify/monitor: Short-term systematic monitoring of progress towards resolving critical bottlenecks to universal health coverage is undertaken at least every six months, using process and outcome indicators based on available data as much as possible. This process also serves as a foundation for monitoring and accountability for equity-based universal health coverage. •