less than 6 months special care and should be treated in inpatient care. All infants less than 6 months of age have special dietary needs because they metabolically more vulnerable and have higher water requirements than older infants. Supporting exclusive breastfeeding is the cornerstone of management and longer term survival of infants. Infants are particularly vulnerable, to avoid cross-infection. Where possible keep mothers and babies in a separate room or if this is difficult in a separated area. Mothers will learn from and support each other so mother to mother support should be encouraged. The purpose of treatment includes: ▪ Improving and re-establishing breastfeeding where possible. ▪ Appropriate therapeutic feeding. ▪ Nutritional, psychological, and medical care for the mothers/caretakers of infants. Malnourished infants should be admitted to inpatient care when: The infant is too weak or feeble to suckle effectively independently of the weight and length (this should be determined through a thorough assessment of breastfeeding). or W/L is < than – 3 SD (children > 45cm) or Visible wasting in infants < 45cm or Presence of bilateral oedema Procedure for management Managing the malnourished breastfed infant < 6 months STEP 1: Take anthropometric measurements ▪ Measure the weight. Use appropriate scales (with accuracy to at least 20g). Infants should be weighed naked because weight of clothes can make a big difference to the small changes in weights seen in such small infants. ▪ Measure length if > 45cm (Annex 1). STEP 2: Medical assessment ▪ Conduct a medical assessment for signs of illness. STEP 3: Assess the breastfeeding (positioning, attachment and suckling) ▪ Infants who are too weak to suckle effectively should be enrolled in-patient care. Breastfeeding (positioning, attachment and suckling) should be assessed as part of the general assessment. STEP 4: Admit the infant ▪ The infant should be admitted if he/she meets the enrollment criteria). ▪ Complete an in-patient card (Annex 17). ▪ The mother/caretaker and the infant should be placed away from other children as infants are particularly vulnerable to cross-infection. ▪ Keep the infant warm. Put a hat on the infant of possible and place the child on the front of the mother/caretaker with her arms wrapped round the child (skin to skin technique). Wrap the mother and baby in blankets together. Infants less than 6 months xxxvi National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women