or less time on certain learning objectives and activities. The module duration is an estimate of the time it takes to complete all the learning objectives and activities. Materials • Mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC) tapes (numbered) and weighing scale • Height board and weight-for-height (WFH) z-score chart (optional) • Packets of ready-to-use therapeutic food (RUTF) • Napkins (for sampling RUTF) • Scissors • Flip charts • Markers • Masking tape • Handout 4.13 C-MAMI Tool Version 2.0: Breastfeeding Counselling and Support Actions • Outpatient care treatment cards for children 6–59 months • C-MAMI outpatient care treatment card for at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months • RUTF ration cards for children 6–59 months • Referral slips from outreach workers • Projector (optional) • PowerPoint from Module One (optional) Advance Preparation • Review national guidelines and protocols for the treatment of SAM in the country where the training is being conducted. Determine what age and criteria are used for admission. Determine whether weightfor-height (WFH)/ weight-for-length (WFL) is required for admission. If WFH/WFL is not required, use only the bilateral pitting oedema and MUAC criteria during the training. If WFH/WFL is required, include it in the training and use the tables for the WFH/WFL z-scores of the WHO standards (gender specific). • Review the Handout 4.13 C-MAMI Tool Version 2.0: Breastfeeding Counselling and Support Actions and determine what adaptations need to be made to accommodate the management of atrisk mothers and infants under 6 months of age without medical complications in outpatient care. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 65 • Ensure that you have the breastfeeding videos downloaded or available for the demonstration sessions in Learning Objective 7: Explain the Management of At-Risk Mothers and Infants Under 6 Months of Age without Medical Complications in Outpatient Care. • Prepare sets of laminated cards with the admission and discharge criteria for at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months and children 6–59 months, action protocol, medical treatment, and nutrition rehabilitation protocols. • Prepare a chart of national protocols for first-line antibiotic treatment for children with SAM, antihelminth, and malaria treatments. • Obtain local versions of outpatient care treatment cards and RUTF ration cards if possible or use the standard cards. • If optional Exercise 4.5 Outpatient Care Admissions Role Play is done, make cards with the roles’ descriptions as well as copies of blank outpatient care treatment cards,