management of acute malnutrition DISCUSSION: Ask a few participants to give examples of national commitments and policies regarding CMAM. GUEST SPEAKER: Listen to a guest speaker share his/her experiences in planning, implementing, and integrating a CMAM programme. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 25 Module 1 Wrap-Up and Module Evaluation SUGGESTED METHOD: REVIEW OF LEARNING OBJECTIVES AND COMPLETION OF EVALUATION FORM • Review the learning objectives of the module. In this module you have: 1. Discussed acute malnutrition and the need for a response 2. Identified the principles of CMAM 3. Described innovations and evidence making CMAM possible 4. Identified the components of CMAM and how they work together 5. Developed an appreciation for the issues related to implementing CMAM 6. Explored how CMAM can be implemented in different contexts 7. Identified key national and global commitments relating to CMAM • Ask for any questions and feedback on the module. • Direct participants to Handout 1.12 Essentials of CMAM for future reference. • Tell participants that they will have an opportunity to observe procedures and talk with staff during the field visit. • Ask participants to complete the module evaluation form.* *The evaluation form can be distributed at the end of each day or periodically, depending on trainers’ preferences. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 26 FIELD VISIT TO OUTPATIENT CARE SITE Overview • Trainer: Become familiar with Handout 1.13 Field Visit Checklist. • A maximum of five participants should be at each outpatient care site on a given day. Coordinate with as many sites as necessary to keep the number of participants at five or fewer. • Pair participants with someone who speaks both the local language and the participants’ language. • Introduce participants to the person in charge. Learning Objectives 1. Observe the following activities: How nutritionally vulnerable at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months of age are admitted and discharged, if possible How children with SAM are admitted and discharged, if possible How children with SAM are treated and evaluated in outpatient care follow-on sessions (e.g., anthropometric measurement, medical assessment, supply of RUTF) How nutritionally vulnerable at-risk mothers and infants under 6 months are managed and monitored in outpatient care follow-on sessions (feeding assessment, medical assessment, anthropometric measurements, counselling, and feeding support) 2. Discuss with staff the following: What do they like and dislike about the CMAM