Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 102 Module 5 Wrap-Up and Module Evaluation Suggested Method: Review learning objectives and complete evaluation form. • Review the learning objectives of the module. In this module you have: 1. Outlined the inpatient care component of CMAM 2. Identified admission and discharge criteria for inpatient care for the management of SAM with medical complications 3. Reviewed medical and dietary treatment used in inpatient care 4. Practiced the referral process between inpatient care and outpatient care • Ask for any questions and feedback on the module. • Ask the following review questions: What are the main reasons for referring infants and children to inpatient care? About what percentage of the total caseload of children with SAM will require inpatient care? About what percentage of the total caseload of infants will require inpatient care? How long (on average) is a child with SAM with medical complications expected to stay in inpatient care before continuing on to treatment in outpatient care? What are the discharge criteria from inpatient care to outpatient care (i.e. how do you know when a child with SAM with complication is ready to go to outpatient care)? • Let participants know that they will have an opportunity to observe procedures and discuss them with staff during the inpatient care field visit. • Ask participants to fill out the module evaluation form. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 103 Module 5 Inpatient Care Field Visit Overview • Ideally, a maximum of five participants should be at each inpatient care site on a given day to allow participants enough time to observe and interact directly. Coordinate with as many inpatient care sites as necessary to keep the number of participants at five or fewer. Ensure that the inpatient care facilities where the field visit will take place provide 24-hour care and are fully equipped to manage severe acute malnutrition according the WHO treatment protocol. • Pair participants with someone who speaks both the participants language and the local language. • Introduce participants to the head of the ward or other person in charge. Learning Objectives Handouts to Take to Inpatient Care Field Visit Review Admission, Treatment, and Discharge Procedures for Inpatient Care Handout 5.1 Essentials for the Management of SAM With Medical Complications in Inpatient Care Handout 5.8 Inpatient Care Field Visit Checklist Local Inpatient Care Treatment Card Observe