a certain age (for example all children under 3 years) or all pregnant and lactating women irrespective of whether they are acutely malnourished. This is known as blanket SFP. Blanket SFP may be implemented during an emergency for a defined time period when the prevalence of acute malnutrition is high and general food rations are inadequate. SFP is not always available outside of NGO programs and outside of an emergency context. Moderate acute malnutrition may be managed through interventions other than SFP. This includes communitybased programmes such as Positive Deviance/Hearth (PD-Hearth) and health education and communication interventions (IEC). The purpose of SFP is to: ▪ Reduce mortality and morbidity among children 6 to 59 months. ▪ Prevent deterioration in the nutritional status of acutely moderately malnourished children (or all children under a certain age) for a defined time period. ▪ Prevent deterioration in the nutritional status of pregnant and lactating women for a defined time period. SFP PROVIDES TREATMENT FOR: ▪ Children aged 6 to 59 months with moderate acute malnutrition with appetite and without medical complications. ▪ Acutely malnourished pregnant women in the second and third trimester. ▪ Acutely malnourished lactating women whose child is less than 6 months old. Infants less than 6 months are not included in SFP. If the infant is moderately acutely malnourished without complications and the mother is breastfeeding, the mother should be included in the SFP (as a lactating woman) and the mother supported to continue to breastfeed. If the infant is moderately acutely malnourished with complications and/or there are problems with suckling and the infant is unable to breastfeed well, the infant should be referred to inpatient care and the mother enrolled in the SFP as a lactating woman. Protocols and reference sheets Protocols and reference sheets can be found in a separate pack at the back of these guidelines. These can be copied and printed in large quantities. Protocols marked with an asterisk * should be laminated for easy reference at the health facility. Annex 1: Anthropometric measurement techniques Annex 12: Iron and Folic acid doses Annex 24: SFP Ration Card Annex 25: Referral slip from SFP to OTP Annex 27: SFP routine medicines Screening and referral to SFP Active case finding of acutely malnourished children should take place at community level. Community health workers and community volunteers will carry out active case and will identify and refer acutely malnourished children