and nationally, and they should be reported nationally and subnationally. However, geographic coverage gives little information on 31 For definition see box 33. supervision visits and meetings. The information should be used to address supervision, support and resources in particular areas; decide on staff training focus; and trigger further investigation visits (see page 28). Ideally the analysis, discussion and decisions for action taken are documented within the nutrition coordination forum. Integrate coverage monitoring Treatment coverage (the extent to which all eligible children are being reached) is one of the most critical indicators to assess how well a programme is meeting the needs of the population, and is therefore a vital indicator to monitor. Why coverage is so important Meeting the need for coverage requires both highly effective treatment and high coverage (see figure 4 and box 16): Met need = Effectiveness × Coverage The efficacy of SAM management protocol may be defined as how well the protocol works in ideal and controlled settings. It is measured by the cure (recovery) rate, usually estimated in a clinical trial. For the management of SAM protocol, the recovery rate should be close to 100 per cent if the full protocol is implemented, including early identification. The effectiveness of SAM management protocol may be defined as the cure rate of the protocol under real programme conditions. Effectiveness depends, to a large extent, upon: 1. Severity of disease: Early treatment seeking and timely case finding and recruitment of SAM cases will result in a group of beneficiaries in which the majority of cases are uncomplicated, incident (new) cases. The cure rate of the management of SAM protocol in such a group is close to 100 per cent. Late treatment seeking and weak case finding and admission will result in a group of more severe and more complicated cases. The cure rate in such a cohort may be much lower than 100 per cent. PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 29 and Coverage (SQUEAC), Simplified LQAS Evaluation of Access and Coverage (SLEAC) and Simple Spatial Survey Method (S3M). The different methods yield different outputs, and the appropriate methodology will depend on the specific context. These methods, outlined in more detail in annex C, Direct Coverage Assessment, enable direct assessment of treatment coverage at the district, regional and even national level, but also have limitations that need to be taken into account. Information on geographic distribution of