in weight this is due to increased quantity of breast milk. ▪ Weigh the baby daily with a graduated scale to within 20g. When the baby is gaining weight at 20g /day: ▪ Decrease the quantity of F100 diluted to one half of the maintenance intake ▪ If the weight gain is maintained (10g/day) then stop the supplement and continue on breast milk alone. ▪ The breast should be offered 1/2 1 hour before giving the therapeutic feed when the baby is more likely to be hungry and so more likely to suckle. If possible keep the child in inpatient care for 2 days on breast milk alone to make sure he/she continues to gain weight. If weight is not maintained ▪ Increase the amount given to 75% of the maintenance amount for 2-3 days. When to stop SST Continue to give the full amount of supplementary milk as well as breast milk until: ▪ Any oedema has disappeared ▪ The infant’s appetite improves ▪ There is evidence of breast milk production (milk can be expressed, breasts feel fuller). This usually occurs about two to seven days after initial re-feeding begins. As the infant’s general condition improves, s/he will start to show an interest in taking milk including taking the supplementary milk quickly, and finishing all feeds, sucking on the syringe, suckling the breast more strongly, or lapping from a cup. xxxix National guidelines for the management of acute malnutrition among children under five and pregnant and lactating women Care of mothers The rehabilitation of the baby is related to the well-being of the mother, it is therefore essential to care for the mother. Mothers and babies should sit is a separate room or in a corner where they can support each other. Health care providers and assistants should communicate clearly with mothers regarding the care and treatment of their infants and provide patient and continuous support. ▪ Check mother’s MUAC and the presence of oedema. MUAC <210 and/or nutritional oedema indicates that the mother is acutely malnourished. Acutely malnourished mothers should be given RUTF (2-3 sachets/day) if sufficient supplies are available. Refer to SFP (if this is available). ▪ Do not make the mother feel guilty for the state of her child or blame her for giving other foods. Strongly reassure the mother that the SST works and that she will get enough milk herself to make her baby