can and should be made with IMCI, postnatal care, national level or nongovernmental organisation (NGO) food distribution programmes, programmes to manage MAM, immunisations and Vitamin A supplementation, family planning, water and sanitation, health and nutrition education, malaria and HIV treatment, food security and livelihoods programmes, and other support services. Ask participants to form working groups of three or four, by district or region if possible, and distribute cards. Ask each group to write on a card all the health services, programmes and initiatives in their district and explain how these can link to outpatient care (mapping). Ask groups to post their cards and explain their prescribed links to outpatient care. Discuss. Leave the cards posted for the remainder of the training. Training Guide for Community-Based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM), 2018 Version 85 Module 4 Wrap-Up and Module Evaluation TRAINER: Become familiar with Handout 4.21 Essentials of Outpatient Care for SAM Without Medical Complications and, if applicable, Optional Exercise 4.5 Outpatient Care Admissions Role-Play. OPTIONAL ROLE-PLAY: PRACTICING ADMISSION TO OUTPATIENT CARE. To prepare for this role-play, make copies of blank outpatient care treatment cards, blank RUTF ration cards, referral slips from outreach workers indicating red MUAC, and Handout 4.11 Nutrition Rehabilitation and RUTF for Children 6—59 Months (specifically the section on RUTF Ration). MUAC tapes and a doll are also needed. Ask for two volunteers: one to play a mother with a small child, and the other to play a nurse in charge of outpatient care. Give each volunteer a card with the description of his/her role, as explained in Exercise 4.5 Outpatient Care Admissions Role-Play, below, and after the volunteers have had a few minutes to review their roles, begin the role-play. Once finished, discuss the role-play in plenary, asking participants to fill in any gaps and to make suggestions on how to keep assessments running smoothly. If time permits, repeat the role-play with other volunteers. Exercise 4.5 Outpatient Care Admissions Role-Play Mother with a Small Child: • Use a doll to simulate your child. Give the child a name (if culturally accepted). • Your child is about 10 months old (you do not know exactly), and is your youngest. You have five other children. Your husband died about a year ago after a long illness. • You breastfeed her, but you do not feel very well yourself and the baby does not seem to get any milk. You