can be a resource-consuming exercise (human, time, financial). Often a mix of already available data and additional data collected ad hoc is used. At this stage, as the baseline is developed it is also extremely important to validate the data independent of the source. One of the most commonly used validation techniques is data triangulation — in simple terms, triangulation means cross-checking different sources of data to compare estimates. (See annex B for more guidance on types of additional assessments that may be required.) PLANNING THE SCALE-UP OF SAM MANAGEMENT 11 to reconcile the push for geographic coverage (disseminating the approach to the largest number of districts) with the mandate to reach the population in need with high-quality services. A parallel challenge for countries is monitoring progress in terms of coverage and quality. Rapid expansion at the expense of quality has been documented, for example, in Ethiopia, Pakistan and Somalia12. This dynamic has particularly been problematic where short-term funding has induced agencies to rush to increase geographic coverage and/or distribute supplies without putting quality checks into place or building sufficient local capacities to implement the approach. The results were compromised quality and effectiveness of services, which undermined motivation of communities and lead to poor treatment coverage. All of these issues take time and resources to rectify and can be avoided. There are examples of modalities for scale-up that have been shown to be more successful. These modalities used to introduce and then expand the approach to new districts include the following: • Covering all facilities in a district before expansion: This involves expanding management of SAM to all facilities within a district within a specific time period with the aim of achieving coverage before moving on to the next district. This approach works best in the early stages of a programme, as each new district begins implementation, usually in response to demand from the district and reported high levels of SAM. However, this approach initially requires intensive support in terms of resource mobilization and capacity development. • Covering a selection of facilities in a number of districts: This involves introducing the approach in a limited number of facilities in 12 ENN, 2012a, ‘Government experiences of scale-up of Communitybased Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM): A synthesis of lessons’, www.cmamforum.org/Pool/Resources/CMAM-ConferenceSynthesis,-Addis,-ENN-2012.pdf. plan to mobilize additional partners or resources or to advocate at higher levels (see box 3). Agree on overall objectives, scale-up modalities,