• What national institutions are involved? • Are there any potential examples in the country of innovative technologies being used for information management? UNICEF PROGRAMME GUIDANCE DOCUMENT 80 Skipping this step often results in insufficient or misguided attention to the community component of CMAM. Neglect of the community enquiry has been recognized by a number of countries as a key bottleneck to achieving coverage and therefore impact (ENN 2011148). The reasons given for skipping this step include not understanding the importance of the community component, lack of expertise and leadership in the area, concerns about overburdening the system and lack of funds. With appropriate support, these issues can be addressed. In cases where the community enquiry hasn’t been considered at the beginning of scale-up, the use of coverage assessments to identify barriers to access can help to rectify the problem. Two things should be noted in addition. First, insufficient community engagement can result in a large number of ineligible people attending the programme due to poor understanding of the programme admission criteria. Second, a programme with poor coverage does not reach the children in most need and is also an expensive programme in terms of cost per treatment. The resources expended to put SAM services in place are most efficiently utilized when the number of children treated is high i.e., where health facilities achieve high coverage, overall cost effectiveness improves. B3. Assessing local understanding Any bottleneck assessment for CMAM in a country needs to take into account the target communities and health systems perceptions and concerns around SAM. At the community level, this can be assessed during the community enquiry, and for the health system within the capacity assessment (see B1 and B2). Information collected on local understanding should include the following: 148 ENN, 2011, ‘Conference on government experiences of scaling up the Community-based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) and lessons for the Scaling Up (SUN) movement,’ http:// www.ennonline.net/ourwork/ennmeetings/cmamconference2011. • Local disease classification for severe forms of acute malnutrition: What terms are used, and what are the beliefs about causality? • How severe forms of acute malnutrition are dealt with: What are the beliefs about treatments? What are the paths to treatment? How do they differ from health problems? • Attitudes toward formal health services: What is the community’s experience and perception of formal health services? • Alternative services: What alternative services/ measures do communities use (e.g., home remedies, pharmacies,