have access to diets that prevent stunting and related nutritional deficiencies. However, two-thirds of families in Pakistan cannot afford a nutritious diet.vi The affordability gap is largest among the poorest two wealth quintiles: their food expenditure covers less than 60 percent of the cost of a healthy, diverse diet,vii restricting their choices to basic foods, such as bread, lentils and some vegetables, a diet that does not provide adequate nutrition, neither in terms of micronor macronutrients, a major driver of malnutrition. In order to access a diverse healthy diet, with just half of energy provided by bread and rice, more than 400 g of vegetables and fruits, some lentils or nuts, and some animal source foods everyday, people need more than knowledge and desire, they also need to be able to find them on the market and to be able to afford these foods. 4 BENAZIR NASHONUMA PROGRAMME Midline Evaluation Results 4. Awareness sessions on maternal, infant and young child nutrition and hygiene practices, and on storage and utilization of the SNF, are provided at each quarterly visit to the FC. This is further complemented by community awareness raising activities to foster positive nutrition and health practices, address gender issues, and to stimulate enrollment in the programme as well. 5. At each visit, women and children also undergo regular screening for malnutrition and are referred for treatment of both moderate and severe malnutrition when required. SPECIALIZED NUTRITIOUS FOODS (SNFS): A PROVEN, COSTEFFECTIVE INVESTMENT IN HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT The inadequate intake of essential nutrients from diets that are not diverse enough is partly filled, in a very cost-efficient manner, by the SNF that is provided to the women during pregnancy and breastfeeding and to the child during the complementary feeding period. The cost of the SNF and its provision, including the full running cost of the FCs, is less than US $66 per person per year, or US $0.18 / PKR 50 per person per day. WHO guidelines for prevention and management of wastingviii and for prevention of poor birth outcomesix recommend the use of SNFs, and in particular lipid-based nutrient supplements, such as Maamta and Wawamum, where family foods alone cannot meet nutritional requirements of those affected or at-risk. The SNFs provided by Nashonuma consist of a nutrient-packed paste made from chickpeas, vegetable oil, milk powder and sugar, and are comprehensively fortified with a vitamin and mineral premix. Maamta is