members on MUAC measurement and assessment of bilateral pitting oedema of their children has been added as a strategy to facilitate early case detection and referral for treatment. In addition, the following changes have been made: • Admission of children 6–59 months for treatment of SAM is based on a MUAC of <115 mm and any degree of bilateral pitting oedema; for MAM treatment, admission is based on a MUAC of 115 to <125 mm. • The weight-for-height/weight-for-length (WFH/WFL) <-3 z-score of the WHO reference standards is also used to admit for treatment of SAM, and WFH/WFL -3 to <-2 z-score is used to admit for treatment of MAM. • The same anthropometric indicator used to identify and confirm SAM or MAM on admission is used to determine recovery and discharge from treatment. 2. Vitamin A Supplementation in the Treatment of SAM: A high dose of vitamin A is not given to infants and children if they are receiving therapeutic foods that comply with WHO specifications. A high dose of vitamin A is given on admission only if the therapeutic foods provided are not fortified as recommended in the WHO specifications and vitamin A is not part of other daily supplements. A high dose of vitamin A is given on day 1 to children with SAM who also have eye signs of vitamin A deficiency and to children with SAM who recently had measles, with a second and a third dose on day 2 and day 15, respectively, regardless of the type of therapeutic food the child is receiving. 3. Management of HIV-Infected Children with SAM: In addition to the recommendations provided in the 2013 WHO updates on the management of SAM in infants and children, treatment of HIVinfected children with acute malnutrition should follow the national HIV protocols. In high prevalence areas, universal testing of children with acute malnutrition is encouraged if HIV status is unknown. If a child is failing to respond to treatment of acute malnutrition, and HIV status is unknown, it is recommended that the child be tested for HIV as part of the routine treatment. 4. Management of At-Risk Mothers and Infants under 6 Months of Age (MAMI): Following the 2013 WHO updates on the management of SAM in infants and children, infants under 6 months should be managed according to the same basic principles as children age 6–59 months, including distinguishing those infants with