N N N y N N N N d. service delivery point? 0.33 Y Y Y N N N N N N Y N N N N N y N N N N 9 Do logistics staff has the tools and resources they need to do their jobs, at the following levels (e.g., job aids, forms, carbon paper, calculators, shelving, vehicles, funds for transport, etc.)? If not, which tools or resources are missing at the following levels: a. central? Not applicable b. regional? Lack of storage conditions as mentioned in Baluchistan MSD, c. district? The warehouses at district level are insufficient in size, lack of racks and pallets. The Air Conditioning facility is available in Punjab while other provinces are deprived from such facilities. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 121 indicators LSAT Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs d. service delivery point? At the health facility levels, the size of stores are insufficient. The Pallets and racks are not provided in sufficient quantities. And also the bags for the dispensing of medicines. a. Is external assistance (from other NGOs, donors, or partners) used to complete management and supervision activities? The Monitoring and Evaluation Assistance (MEA) has facilitated the department of health in getting the stock status of very essential medicines. UNICEF and WHO facilitate in monitoring of vaccination (utilization of vaccines) stock status etc. 10 Are supervisory responsibilities described in written job descriptions? 1 Y Y Y N N N N N N Y N N N N N Y N N N N In the job description the major responsibilities of the supervision are given. But the templates or check list gives more description of supervision. 11 Are guidelines available for how the supervisor is to conduct the supervisory visit 1 No guidelines were available for the supervisor that describes him how to conduct the supervisor visits. How to create two way communications. 12 Are tools available that describe what to cover when conducting a supervisory visit specifically for logistics monitoring 1 Y Y Y N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N Supervisory tools for the monitoring of vaccine storage MEAs tool of monitoring of health facility DHIS indicators give the information of