updated and strengthened to include recommended commodities for pneumonia and diarrhea management? • Phased procurement and supply of pneumonia and diarrhea commodities for selected provinces/districts 4-what measures are required to translate lessons learned from this project to other geographical scopes within Pakistan? Midterm Evaluation Report 94 • What actions are necessary to support and strengthen the DHIS2 and link it with LMIS? • What measures are necessary to improve advocacy for local production and manufacturing of these commodities? • How can Unicef, advocate with the government for adequate budgetary allocation, while increasing procurement of newly recommended commodities? • How can the capacity of heath service providers on health information, supply chain management and use of data collection tools be built/enhanced? Guide for Provincial DHIS Official Before starting interview, remember to: ⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit ⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of study objectives ⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 1 Can share something about routine MIS? What is the current status of DHIS? • What do you think about the sufficiency of DHIS tools for recording and reporting regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? If yes, • Do these reports provide adequate cover and indicate the shortage of commodities? • If no, Do you have any other system? 2 Have you made any decisions regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea on the basis of the reports generated from the district level? f yes Kindly give some examples.? • How can the recording and reporting of services regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea be improved? 3 Now, we would like to know about the process of forecasting and quantification of medicines and supplies at your facility? Probes: • Is it based on burden of disease from the catchment area or based on data from DHIS? • Are the supplies provided according to the demands submitted/ need based? If no, kindly explain reasons for under-supply. 4 Kindly comment on whether the supply of new commodities like Zinc DT and Low Osmolarity ORS is according to the generated demand? • Have you or other staff member received any formal training on forecasting and quantification of medicines and supplies? Midterm Evaluation Report 95 5 In your opinion, what is the use of DHIS in context of management of children suffering from Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Probe: • Are you satisfied with the quality