of the availability of right drug, at right time in right dosage and frequency. Irrational prescribing practices of the physicians may influence the whole efforts that were put in to improve the SCMS. The WHO always recommends and promotes the rational utilization of the drugs. In SCM, efforts made to promote the rational utilization of drugs are very important. There is a requirement to ensure the availability of STG at the service delivery site, to promote the understanding of STG, and increase the rational use of drugs. During the assessments, it has been observed that one of the major reasons of irrational use of medicines was, the unavailability of first line therapy. Physician has to move on to the second line therapy. It may increase the antibiotics resistance and the cost of therapy. 4.2.12 Section XII: Patient Exit interviews Total number of caretakers interview conducted were 73. It has been observed that the patients have the understanding of preparation of ORS and on further inquiring an impression was given that they know the preparation of ORS before coming to hospital. The Patients know that they have to prepare the medicines in boiled and cooled water while a small number of patients skipped the word cool. The dose and duration was also understood by the patients, although, some patient have the confusion of daily interval of the administration of medicines. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 50 District Number of caretakers of patients interviewed % of patient with correct understanding of preparation of medicines correct dose and duration Kashmore 11 91 82 Sukkur 10 90 90 Tando Muhammad Khan 8 88 88 Karachi Malir 7 86 86 Saheed Benazirabad 11 91 91 Muzaffarghar 8 88 88 Rajanpur 8 88 88 Pakpattan 10 90 90 4.2.13 Section XIII: Private clinics and pharmacies Prescribing practices (as asked from the physicians) was poly pharmacy. Physicians need complete understanding of the use of Zinc. There is no proper method defined for the disposal of clinic / hospital waste. It has been observed that the Zinc dispersible tablet was available in the market of District Pakpattan and Karachi. There was no shortage of medicines in the market especially in Punjab but there was a delay from the manufacturers in supply which indicates that the open market was the first priority area of the manufacturers. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 51 0505 CONCLUSION SUPPLY / LOGISTICS