Fridge Temprature monitoring of fridge Temprature monitoring of room Air Conditioner Fan Electric bulbs Racks Pallets 4.2.9 Section IX: Transportation / Distribution In Punjab and Sindh, It has been observed, that in the public health department, Supply chain mechanism and transportation of medicines was a challenge. Although, the health department, either arranges vehicle from LHW programs or provides rental vehicles for the transportation of medicines; but such situation could not be handled when there is an emergency stock delivery. The overall expense for the distribution of medicines increased considerably. The techniques to calculate the quantities, that are required to be distributed, were not understood by the store keepers. The quantities of medicines should be calculated on the basis of morbidity to provide complete therapy of a disease. It was observed that the health facilities have ORS in the stock, but Zinc Syrup was not present and if it was available, the quantities were very low. It indicates that morbidity or STG were not taken in considerations before the distribution of medicines. The distribution of vaccine was through recommended vehicle and vaccine carrier boxes. In Sindh, PPP has arranged the private suppliers. They were responsible to deliver the medicines at district levels. At the district level, the organization managed medicines supplies from the district warehouse to the health facilities. The frequency of medicines supplies was based on the consumption and availability of space for storage, at each level. In the districts, the lead time of supply in PPHI was 2 to 3 days. PPHI, HANDS and IHS have its own vehicles (not specifically designed for medicines transportation) and medicines were distributed in the vehicle; especially, in the districts there were no specific routes for the distribution of medicines. In Punjab, IRMNCH & NP has solved this issue by contracting a courier service for the supply of medicines. It was reported by the LHWs, that in the past they had to face the issues of medicines delivery. Delay was a common practice. . The transportation of medicines through courier has reduced the time of delivery; thus, the medicines will reach its destination in time. 4.2.10 Section X: Organizational support for Logistics system The organizational support for the logistics activity is an important component for smooth operations of supply chain management system. It was observed, that the communication system among the public health facilities at the district levels was either weak or ambiguous.