United States Centers for Disease Control and WHO. The incentives provided included a hygiene kit (chlorine for water treatment and soap) which was given during ANC visits 1 and 3, a nutrition kit (fortified flour) given during ANC visits 2 and 3, and a delivery kit (bucket with lid and tap, chlorine and coagulant/flocculant sachets for water treatment, soap, baby blanket, razor blade, and hospital and surgical gloves) given for health facility deliveries. At the same time, clinic and service improvements were made, including 1) training of nurses in management of obstetric emergencies, neonatal resuscitation, rapid syphilis testing and quality control, water treatment and hygiene and patient-centered care, and 2) provision of handwashing and drinking-water stations as well as resuscitation equipment. Positive outcomes of this approach included: • substantial increases in fourth antenatal visit (77% compared to 57% at baseline), health facility deliveries (74% compared to 43% at baseline), postnatal checkups (61% compared to 37% at baseline) and counselling in family planning; • increased reporting of, and observed drinking-water treatment (54% compared to 39% at baseline); • increased ability to demonstrate correct handwashing techniques (68% compared to 54% at baseline). This approach is now being applied throughout Nyanza Province. Other interventions prioritized by the Government of Kenya, such as stethoscopes, blood pressure cuffs, scales, and anaemia testing and treatment may be added. Source: Adapted from: O’Connor, K. 2012. Integration of household water treatment and handwashing education with maternal health services in Rural Western Kenya: Preliminary Report. Action needed at country level National governments must lead in developing, implementing, and financing the strategies and actions needed for a reduction in pneumonia and diarrhoea morbidity and mortality. This should be done within existing national child health or child survival strategies. The following general actions (see summary in Box 5) should help countries to accelerate implementation of pneumonia and diarrhoea interventions. Individuals or small groups already working in the area within the country will need to take charge of organizing progress towards the actions described in more detail in this section, and will need to obtain the necessary authorization to proceed. Some of the work/ targets described here may have been accomplished already; for example, a plan may already have been developed. In this context, it is more important for countries to move forward with implementation, rather than to repeat planning work that has already been done. Examples of actions for implementing some