of the things you would talk about.’ May we begin? The guideline contains multiple questions and each question is followed by a set of probes. Please let participants initiate the discussion and use probes only when certain concerns are not addressed by the group Midterm Evaluation Report 99 Q1 a) What is your role in PPA? What has PPA’s role been in improving Under-5 childhood mortality and morbidity? Any particular improvement in treating pneumonia and diarrhea? b) Has PPA conducted or contributed to any study related to Under-5 child mortality and morbidity? Any particular research on pneumonia and diarrhea? c) In your opinion how can PPA make a significant contribution in improving pneumonia and diarrhea services? d) What support would PPA require in making this contribution from the Government? e) What support would PPA require in making this contribution from the development partners and donors? 2-I‘d like to know about main childhood related illnesses diagnosed in your clinic/hospital. Can you please comment on the caseload of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Probes: • About what proportion of children (less than 5 years) is brought to your clinic/hospital that suffer from pneumonia and diarrhea? • What is your view about the major causes of spread of these diseases and how can this be prevented? • Do you think male and female children equally seek treatment for these illnesses? Do you think any disparity exists when parents seek treatment for their sons and daughters? 3I would like to know about your skills/competence for managing childhood illnesses? Can you please tell us about any training(s) received since you have been practicing for dealing such diseases? In your view, what can be done to improve quality of training? 4Now, I would like to discuss your awareness about protocols and guidelines (like IMNCI guidelines) for managing pneumonia and diarrhea in children at your clinic/hospital. Are these protocols and guidelines followed? Probes: • Can you please explain their usefulness in diagnosing and treating childhood illness? • If no such specific protocols/guidelines are available and being implemented, can you please comment on the reasons? 5Now, we will like to know about the diagnosis of pneumonia in your clinic/hospital? Please tell us how do you diagnose children suffering from Pneumonia? Probes: • Do you think any particular equipment (ARI Timers, Oxygen cylinders and Pulse Oximeters) is essential for the diagnosis of pneumonia? If there is any deficiency, please explain reasons