of health workers or CHWs in areas at high risk for emergencies trained in standard treatment protocol for pneumonia and diarrhoea and how to adapt to a change in context, and where indicated trained in the management of epidemic-prone diseases such as cholera • Stock outs of medicines for pneumonia and diarrhoea during emergencies • Diarrhoea incidence rate in affected populations • Availability of supplies for case management 53 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) Annex 3. Planning Framework for Coordinated Approaches for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea Control The purpose of this Annex is to guide a working group responsible for taking action on pneumonia and diarrhoea control through a planning process, beginning with conducting a situation analysis. This process should facilitate coordination and collaboration between child health and other programmes and sectors. The Steps in the process include: 1. Conduct a situation analysis 2. Identify the pneumonia and diarrhoea protection, prevention and control interventions that have been included in existing policies/strategies/plans, including for epidemic-prone diseases such as cholera 3. Identify the main problems pneumonia and diarrhoea control has faced 4. Analyse causes of problems and identify options for overcoming them 5. Formulate recommendations for coordinated actions and identify specific actions that need to be taken with clear responsibilities and time frame 6. Monitor and track progress in implementation of the actions identified Step 1. Conduct a situation analysis 1. Involve programme managers or other senior staff for child health, immunization, nutrition, HIV, health systems, water and sanitation, environmental health, emergencies and outbreaks, planning, and finance as well as relevant United Nations agencies, major NGOs, etc., in the situation analysis. 2. Refer to the following documents (in addition to the GAPPD) for background information on the problem: Global Action Plan for Prevention and control of Pneumonia (GAPP) – especially pages 1-7, and page 13. Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying, and what can be done Pneumonia and diarrhoea: Tackling the deadliest diseases for the world’s poorest children. 3. Gather together the most recent key country documents, such as: DHS /MICS: recent reports National health plan or strategy and budget Comprehensive multi-year plan (cMYP) for immunization National IMCI and/or child health/survival strategic plan National nutrition/IYCF policy/strategy National PMTCT strategic plan MDG /Countdown Reports WHO/UNICEF JMP report on access to water and sanitation National WASH strategies (water quality, sanitation, etc.) Poverty reduction strategic plans