were concerned about their community acceptance. A GP from Punjab revealed, “oral Zinc has very important role in treatment…however I have never heard about Zinc DTs before.” Another GP from Sindh said, “…have heard of Zinc DTs for the first time. I think private sector should be involved in order to raise awareness.” Among the GPs who were aware about Zinc DT, some were doubtful of its practicality. A GP from Sindh justified syrup’s preference in these words, “Dispersible tablets dissolve in water, because the water is contaminated so syrup is better than dispersible tablets.” Majority of the Pharmacy in-charges interviewed were aware of the benefits of Dispersible Tablets in the treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. However, the most commonly prescribed antibiotics for the treatment of respiratory tract infection and Diarrhea were Amoxicillin and Zinc in syrup forms. According to these Pharmacy in-charges, the current market for DTs is not very developed and there is negligible demand of DTs from the private sector and caregivers. Pharmacy In-charges from Tharparkar and Jacobabad commented, “There is no market for Midterm Evaluation Report 46 DTs. Private healthcare providers does not prescribe DTs; hence the DTs are not available in the market.” The main suggestion to promote DTs was to create and increase demand through prescription from medical practitioners. Creating awareness about DTs in order to promote them was quite important according to pharmacy in-charges. They believed that medical representatives and doctors had a role to play in this. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab emphasized this need; “… people should also have some awareness about usage and usefulness of such medicine...medical reps should suggest pharmaceutical companies to make such medicine in DTs given their usefulness in treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea.” Such awareness would also be beneficial for over the counter sales. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab assumed that over counter sale of DTs would rise, if their prescriptions increase. Finding: In remote areas of Pakistan, Lady Health Workers play an important role in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and are trusted, valued and carry influence on healthcare seeking behaviours. Most of Facility In-charges in implementing districts of Punjab and Sindh agreed on the role and responsibilities of Lady Health Workers. They seemed satisfied with their performance, acknowledged their role in raising awareness and treating diseases as well as their contribution to the society. LHWs provide indispensable services to the country’s poor and marginalized,