Programme, UNICEF Project Staff Management And Implementation Roles District District Health Offices, Healthcare Providers, Lady Health Supervisors (LHSs) and Lady Health Workers (LHWs) Coordination And Implementation Roles Community Concerned Population i.e. service users (mothers/caregivers of U5 children) Recipients And Beneficiaries Development Partners BMGF Funding Support UN Agencies Technical Reviews And Implementation Support Aga Khan University Implementation Partner for Community Mobilization in Sindh 1.2 Rationale for Commissioning Midterm Evaluation UNICEF commissioned midterm evaluation (MTE) as part of the monitoring and evaluation activities planned for this project to ascertain that the direction and progress made were in the right direction in meeting its ultimate goals. It assessed the extent to which this project was successful in achieving its intended results and aided the beneficiaries, and whether the stakeholders were productively involved in the policy change, policy translation, and policy implementation and knowledge management. This evaluation determined systematically and objectively, the progress towards specified project objectives and the extent to which they were achieved and contributed to increase child survival for both girls and boys in Pakistan. This evaluation particularly made recommendations in improving the pathways of diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in U5 children over the project period. Evaluation documented the overall progress and lessons learned from the project with recommendations that would be used in improving the project in accordance with the National Health Vision, and formulating a revised strategic plan for future planning. The evidences would also help in scaling up the project in other geographical areas in Pakistan and other settings. Government health institutions, more specifically the MoNHSR&C (Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation and Coordination) and the Provincial/Area Departments of Health (DoH), Lady Health Worker Programme (LHWP), Integrated Reproductive Maternal Newborn, Child Health (IRMNCH) Programme, along with United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) are the primary intended users of this evaluation, and would benefit from the learning relevant to their work. The women, children, families, communities, health care providers, policy makers, opinion leaders and partners would be the secondary audience. Primary aim of this midterm evaluation is to document the progress made so far and the lessons learnt from the project that will be used in improving the implementation of project interventions. In addition, secondary aim of this evaluation is knowledge management and reviewing potential for scalability in rest of the provinces. Therefore, the evidences generated will also help in