drinking-water and basic sanitation. For all goals, the baseline was set at 1990. Although substantial progress has been made, MDG 4 can only be achieved by an intensified effort to reduce pneumonia and diarrhoea deaths over the next two years. If global action is not accelerated and sustained over time, an estimated 1.24 million children less than 5 years of age will die from pneumonia and 760 000 will continue to die from diarrhoea every year (11, 12). If the implementation of key interventions 11 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) is accelerated, the number of child deaths from these causes will drop substantially every year. This means millions of young lives can be saved simply by providing proven interventions at levels already achieved for better-off households. Progress has also been made toward achieving MDG 7. The WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme (JMP) for Water Supply and Sanitation, the formal process charged with monitoring MDG 7, reported that the 2015 target for safe drinking-water, namely to halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to safe drinking-water, was met by 2010. However, this coverage target does not address the safety or reliability of water supplies. 3 . Background and purpose of the action plan In 2009, WHO, UNICEF and partners published two separate strategies for control of pneumonia and diarrhoea: a Global Action Plan for Prevention and Control of Pneumonia (GAPP) (13) and a diarrhoeal disease prevention and control strategy (Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done) (9) (see Annex I for summaries). These documents spelled out the key interventions needed to combat these conditions, and many countries have begun to implement them. Since these strategies were launched, it has been recognized that pneumonia and diarrhoea are most effectively addressed in a coordinated manner. They share the same determinants, and thus also share control strategies as well as delivery systems. Both are caused by multiple pathogens and no single intervention will manage either problem. Many countries are already addressing these two diseases jointly through intersectoral working groups, integrating protection, prevention and treatment. For example, Zambia has a Child Health Technical Working Group which covers pneumonia and diarrhoea, in addition to other issues. In many countries, control of these two diseases forms the core of primary health care (PHC). Addressing their prevention and management as integrated bundles helps to