paramedics is competent in their work. Their skills to manage the childhood diseases are up to mark. Such in-service trainings can enhance the competence level in terms of diagnosis of diseases, its categorization and treatment.” Nonetheless, a few reported that such trainings did take place. A facility in-charge from Punjab added, “LHWs associated with our facility got training on prevention of Diarrhea and hepatitis B, which will be followed by training of us doctors on hepatitis B, but not on Diarrhea.” 4.2.2.3 Quality of Trainings Many respondents complained about trainings being unsatisfactory, mismanaged and often conducted by unqualified trainers. Substandard quality of trainings was also associated with lack of funding and priority. A facility in-charge from Punjab shared, “Normally DM or EDO gives such trainings. For training on Pneumonia, child specialists should be invited as trainer.” 4.2.2.4 Venue & Transportation Costs Venue of the trainings and transportation to the venue was a cause of concern for most medical staff. They faced difficulty in receiving reimbursement for their allocated traveling and daily allowances (TA/DA) as mentioned by some of the facility in-charges. Lack of funding was considered the main reason for such inadequacy. A facility in-charge from Sindh mentioned the convenience of having the training in their health facility, 45 “… if they arrange the training in our health facility, it will be very beneficial because the staff would be present there.” Another one from Sindh added, “If the management arranges the training at far off venues, it will be very difficult for health staff… because the relevant department does not pay TA/DA...” 4.2.2.5 Initiative/Responsibility: Government versus 3rd Parties Facility in-charges seemed to be cognizant that pharmaceutical companies, donors and INGOs were more active in taking initiatives for the trainings than the government itself. Most facility in-charges reported that third party groups, particularly pharmaceuticals and NGOs, were organizing the training sessions. A facility incharge from Sindh stated, “… We received our last training… arranged by the NGO working for nutrition on IYCF and Breast Feeding.” 4.2.2.6 Refresher Trainings According to multiple responses, refresher courses are not arranged often, and in many cases, almost never; mainly due to lack of funds and a distinct lack of interest on the government’s part. Facility in-charge from Punjab reiterated this view, “There is no trend of refresher of such trainings…” Another facility in-charge from Punjab declared, “The main reasons for the lack of funding for