265th meeting of Registration Board case no. 3 i.e. registration of 7.1% chlorhexidine digluconate gel. On submission of satisfactory documents by the firm 7.1% Chlorhexidine digluconate gel has been registered. United States Pharmacopeia (Pakistan) should be involved in the process of registration. It will be helpful for the firm to achieve GMP standards and submission of required stability studies. 7.1.3 Long term Recommendations 1. The software like “Prescription management Information System” has advantages over inventory management system but it should be modified and upgraded to computerized physician order entry software (CPOES) approach. Such software can inform the physician while prescribing medicines about the safety of medicine during pregnancy or lactation, therapeutic dose, drug allergy, side effects, drug-drug interaction, drug-food interaction etc. Adverse Drug Reactions Reports should also be included in it. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 64 2. At DHQs and THQs, the availability of pharmacist showed better SCMS. Considering the number of outpatients or services delivered from RHC, Pharmacist should be provided to look after the pharmaceutical activities and facilitate the nearby BHUs. 3. The capacity of warehouses should be improved by purpose built warehouses or by providing racks suitable for large warehouse. Technical knowledge based on WHO recommendations of “Good Storage Practices” should be given to the warehouse staff for the handling of medicines. 08 annexures SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 68 World ealth organization define logistics has developed from an art of supply and maintenance in to scientific discipline involving the utilization management principles. Logistics for peripheral health facility as provision of activities including planning, budgeting, receiving and inspection, storage, inventory control, supply, distribution and transport, maintenance and repair, communications, environmental management of health facilities, record and reporting, supervision and logistics training [4]. WHO estimates that in Low and middle income countries on an average there is about 35% in public health facilities and 65% in private sector, stated in Millennium Development Goals 2008. In LMIC where the buying power of medicines is very less which creates a barrier in access to essential medicines which led them to private informal sector of medicines especially in rural areas. It has also observed that inappropriate prescription and dispensing of medicines also prevails which also led to the gaps is access of essential medicines [5]. World Health Organization described that one of the key component of the functioning of health system is provision of access to affordable, appropriate