in consideration during varied phases including research/activity designing, consultations & stakeholder engagement, staff hiring and training, and M&E. During training of field teams, gender and child rights orientation was given as part of the study design. Study approaches and activities were reviewed for sensitivity in understanding the involved gender roles, norms and dynamics as well as child Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 48 rights according to CRC. All phases of study were passed through sieve of gender, social exclusion, child rights and equity, ensuring the findings were cognisant of the factors. Study Limitations Like any other research, this landscape analysis also faced certain limitations, which restricted the scope during the research process. Due to peak summers, observance of Ramadan and lag time during Eid holidays, data collection process was started with some delay. Another limitation was that only five districts in Punjab and Sindh were selected as part of this research design, which resulted in data that may not be generalized or representative of entire provinces. Moreover, seeking security approval was also a major challenge for data collection in districts of southern Punjab. However, it was mitigated through maintaining a continuous liaison with the provincial Home Department. NOC to conduct research in Muzaffargarh could not be obtained due to security reasons; hence mitigation strategy adopted after mutual consultation with UNICEF team was to replace Muzaffargarh with Pakpattan. Some of the KIIs were rescheduled quite a few times in order to make the sessions more convenient for the respondents. This limitation was mitigated by maintaining a continuous rapport and liaison with relevant respondents. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 49 RESULTS & FINDINGS This chapter provides findings of the qualitative research as expressed by the policy makers, planners, managers, service providers in the in-depth interviews and FGDs. Findings start with description of the policy environment, followed by management practices for childhood pneumonia and diarrhea, concluded by perspective from users of child health services. Policy Environment The goal of the project is to ensure that the relevant national policies are in place, understood and adhered to in order to ensure availability of the essential commodities for improving management of childhood diarrhea and pneumonia and increasing child survival by the end of 2019. The scope of the study was to identify the barriers and facilitators to the process of this policy change. In this regard, detailed consultations were held with the civil servants, vertical