than previous strategies. It has been estimated that 88 per cent of diarrhoeal deaths worldwide are attributable to unsafe water, inadequate sanitation and poor hygiene.4 Actions needed to take interventions to scale In many countries, progress has been made in the delivery or promotion of several of these interventions, particularly vitamin A supplementation and exclusive breastfeeding. However, a substantial reduction in the diarrhoea burden will require greater emphasis on the following actions: ■ Ensure wide availability of low-osmolarity ORS and zinc, which could have a profound impact on child deaths from diarrhoea if scaled up immediately. Possible strategies to increase their uptake and availability could include the development of smaller ORS packets and ﬂavoured formulas, as well as delivering zinc and low-osmolarity ORS together in diarrhoea treatment kits. ■ Include rotavirus vaccine in national immunization programmes worldwide, which was recently recommended by the World Health Organization. Accelerating its introduction, particularly in A 7-point plan for comprehensive diarrhoea control Treatment package The treatment package focuses on two main elements, as outlined in a 2004 joint statement from UNICEF and WHO:1 1) ﬂuid replacement to prevent dehydration and 2) zinc treatment. Oral rehydration therapy – which has been heralded as one of the most important medical advances of the 20th century2 – is the cornerstone of ﬂuid replacement. New aspects of this approach include low-osmolarity oral rehydration salts (ORS), which are more eﬀective at replacing ﬂuids than the original ORS formulation, and zinc treatment, which decreases diarrhoea severity and duration. Important additional components of the package are continued feeding, including breastfeeding, during diarrhoea episodes and the use of appropriate ﬂuids available in the home if ORS are not available, along with increased ﬂuids in general. Prevention package The prevention package highlights ﬁve main elements that require a concerted approach in their implementation. The package includes: 3) rotavirus and measles vaccinations, 4) promotion of early and exclusive breastfeeding and vitamin A supplementation, 5) promotion of handwashing with soap, 6) improved water supply quantity and quality, including treatment and safe storage of household water, and 7) community-wide sanitation promotion. Executive summary 3 Africa and Asia, where the rotavirus burden is greatest, should be an international priority. ■ Develop and implement behaviour change interventions, such as face-to-face counselling, to encourage exclusive breastfeeding. ■ Ensure sustained high levels of vitamin A supplementation, such as by combining its delivery, where eﬀective, with other high-impact health and nutrition