community components will be updated as well. Furthermore, it was revealed that the Sindh has already started preparing for the trainings of community Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 61 workers on the use of use Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT, Low Osmolarity ORS and ARI Timer. These trainings will be of three days in duration. The provincial manager in Sindh expressed her commitment in these words: “To expedite the matter, I have prepared an ‘Accelerated Action Plan’ (AAP), for the reduction of stenting. Since control of pneumonia and diarrhea is part of that plan, I have suggested to the provincial government to arrange funds under APP to conduct 3 days short training on pneumonia and diarrhea to medics and paramedics of at-least 4 districts (other than 16 already covered) during the current financial year. I am also currently doing costing of these trainings. These trainings may be named ‘Phased management of difficult breathing and diarrhea’. Practical demonstration of use of dispersible tablets for pneumonia and diarrhea and ARI timer (in the non-clinical setting) will be essential part of such trainings. (Demonstration on clinical cases will only be feasible in the teaching hospital setting).” It was found out that the UNICEF has already pledged to support the trainings and this support was being considered as very helpful. Furthermore, it was found out that in Sindh province PPA is playing a very proactive role in engaging the private sector. It was shared that the PPA is raising awareness about the topics relevant to child health through media campaigns, seminars and health education sessions. Furthermore, it was shared that the PPA is building capacity of its members on the topics like management of pneumonia and diarrhea in children. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 62 Managers from Punjab noted that there has been no training conducted on IMNCI for the last two years. However, it was shared that the IRMNCH program has started trainings for emergency management of pneumonia and diarrhea at 24/7 BHUs. In this regard a training manual had been prepared for the healthcare providers. However, the importance of the continuous refresher trainings was highlighted by the managers in both provinces. A leading paediatrician stressed the need of pre service trainings for effective management of pneumonia and diarrhea. Furthermore, it was stressed by the experts at all levels that there is a strong need for emphasis in medical school training as well. Policy