serve as appropriate preventive measures. A parent from Punjab elaborated, “In my opinion pneumonia and diarrhea basically occur due to unclean water and winter season. If we take preventive measures like warm clothing and proper hygiene, we can save our children.” Poor Hygiene Conditions – All respondents stressed upon cleanliness and hygiene as a basic preventive measure in combating diseases. Most parents interviewed seemed to be without access to proper sanitation facilities. Many believed that a cleaner environment would result in a healthier community and that a lack of one was the biggest cause of diseases among children. Poor sanitation and dust were also associated with unhygienic conditions. A typical response from one of the parents from Sindh was, “Dirty environment causes diseases and our house is far from city center and there is no cleanliness around us.” Parents stressed on the importance of adopting healthy habits in order to ward off diseases. Many believed practicing and encouraging cleanliness was a key factor in the war against diseases. A parent from Sindh asserted, “Cleanliness should be considered a priority. Hands should be washed well and one should keep him/herself clean.” Another parent from Punjab emphasized, “… through the use of healthy habits we can eradicate these diseases.” Some parents acknowledged the role of stakeholders like doctors, Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 113 NGOs and TV commercials in creating awareness about benefits of maintaining cleanliness. Unavailability of Clean Drinking Water – Many people blamed lack of clean drinking water as the main contributor of diseases in the community. Awareness about importance of clean drinking water was prevalent among parents and they complained about its inaccessibility. Almost every parent was frustrated about the quality of water. A detailed response came from a parent in Punjab; “In our area quality of water is not good. The common child related diseases in our community are due to lack of clean, clear drinking water. Lack of clean drinking source is the main factor promoting pneumonia and diarrhea on our side. Providing clean water will eradicate such diseases.” Malnutrition – Multiple parents cited malnutrition and unhealthy diet as the prime cause of child mortality, contraction of diseases and general unhealthiness. Parents related child mortality to lack of availability of food rather than diseases. A parent from Sindh elaborated, “In our area, there are too many mosquitos but nobody dies because of any disease, instead there are