Amoxicillin suspension. In addition, since the Federal Government is likely to withdraw from its obligation to adequately fund the vertical health programmes, the responsibility would now fall on the provincial governments to appropriately fund these programmes. The provincial governments have moved towards integrating lady health workers’ programme, community mid-wives’ programme and nutrition programme. Where this transition is yet to complete in all provinces, it is recommended that steps should be taken to integrate these programmes. Three key recommendations are made for vertical health programmes: 1. The provincial governments should review the standard supply of stocks to each lady health worker. The system of procurement from planning to end usage needs to be reviewed so that sufficient stock availability can be ensured in the communities especially in rural areas. The method of review can include: a. Situation of stock-outs, b. Disease burden in districts especially in rural districts (Refer to annexure on district data), and c. Seasonal pattern of diseases. 25 2. An analysis of budget required by the vertical health programmes and how will the provincial governments take over this responsibility needs to be undertaken. 3. An IT system should be developed through which stock levels with Lady Health Supervisors can be monitored on regular basis. 4.1.5. An increase of budget on procurement of medicines for treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia During the study visits to 10 districts, it was noted that the DDOs often request 15 20% more budget than what was allocated. These budget requirements are rationalised by the health departments and later by the Finance Departments in the provinces. Health service providers in the 10 districts noted that increase in supply of medicines, and provision of qualified doctor often leads to improved visiting patients. For this reason, the health departments and finance departments should be consulted and requested to provide an increase of 10 15% in the budget head ‘A03927’ procurement of drugs and medicines more specifically for the procurement of ORS, Zinc syrup, and Amoxicillin syrup. The basis of increase of 10 15% is the additional budget that is demanded by the DDOs each year. In addition, a policy note should be circulated from the Health Department to specify that this increase would be awarded to improve supplies of commodities for treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia in specified health facilities. For this reason, a detailed study should be undertaken on the districts that have high disease