in policy change. The midterm evaluation mainly focuses on the implementation and programmatic dimensions of the project and it did not include any impact assessment regarding childhood morbidity and mortality, which would require a household survey and was beyond the scope of this evaluation. Midterm Evaluation Report 17 2. Literature Review The literature review is conducted on the extant national and provincial level policies and management practices for Pneumonia and Diarrhea – including the shift from tablets and syrups to dispersible tablets; use of Low Osmolality ORS, Oxygen, ARI timers, Pulse Oximeters. It starts with a description of international context and best practices across the developing world, and current management practices for Pneumonia and Diarrhea. This section also gives a brief description of “Accelerating Policy Change, Translation and Implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Commodities in Pakistan” being implemented through funding by Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. It concludes with the gains if any that can be achieved at the midterm evaluation point keeping in view OECD/DAC criteria for evaluation. The literature included in this review was selected on the basis of their robustness of evidence as evident by the impact factor of the reviewed publications. Further secondary data for this midterm evaluation has been referred from sources like LHW-MIS, PSLM, PDHS, MICS and NNS. Desk review of project documents, existing child survival policies, strategies and guidelines related to Pneumonia and Diarrhea in relation to GAPPD have been taken into account but not limited to following. • National IMNCI guidelines (2010) • World Health Organization’s (WHO) 2014 IMCI recommendations • Provincial and Areas Health Strategies (2012-2020) • Pakistan’s National Drug Policy • The National Infant and Young Child Feeding (IYCF) Strategy • Pakistan’s Approach to Total Sanitation (PATS) • Scale-up Plan for Essential Medicines for Child Health • Ten Point Vision for RMNCAH & Nutrition 2015-2020 • Integrated Community Case Management (ICCM) guideline and Treatment Guidelines This literature review further helped us identifying the list of indicators to address the evaluation objectives. The questions related to indicative areas (related to the OECD/DAC evaluation criteria, including relevance, effectiveness, efficiency, sustainability and crosscutting areas of equity and gender equality), have been taken into account while selecting these indicators. This evaluation matrix formed the basis of data collection and analysis. 2.1 Global Scenario Substantial developments in terms of child survival were observed throughout the globe during the past two decades making it possible for