of medicines for treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia In Balochistan, KP and FATA, there is an immediate need to enhance budget allocation for medicines especially for treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia as discussions with provincial departments of health revealed that stock outs occur. Special emphasis will need to be placed on rural areas. In Sindh and Punjab, while supply levels of diarrhoea and pneumonia commodities have increased over the past 2 3 years, there is a further need to enhance stock levels by 10 15%. 5. Improvement in budget management practices 3 Discussions will need to take place with Finance Departments to allow one-time release of the budget head ‘procurement of drugs and medicines’. Currently the release policy allows quarter funds released every quarter. It was noted during discussions with provincial and district authorities that releases are often delayed resulting in delayed procurement at the sub-provincial level. In addition, every DDO should be notified of his/her budget amounts by 30 August each year. Trainings should be provided to DDOs on procurement. In Punjab rules and regulations and appropriate budgets should be allowed on timely basis for district health authorities and facilities management company. In Sindh, funds release issues should be resolved with the IHS. 6. Development of IT systems Centralised stocks register including data of procurements, stocks in use, and stock outs, need to be maintained at the central level (departments of health) to enhance efficiency of use and allocations. In addition, the IT systems that have been developed by Punjab government may be demonstrated to other provinces with the aim to replicate such systems. 7. Determination of policy on reduction of out-of-pocket expenditure Out of pocket expenditure in Pakistan is high4. At times, it results in catastrophic expenditure. If the government intends to provide universal healthcare services, then a policy needs to be formulated on how the out of pocket expenditure will be reduced. This can be achieved through devising a more holistic initiative of community health workers, provision of health insurance, increase in government’s budgetary allocations, etc. 8. Holding of pre-budget consultative sessions / seminars with different stakeholders It is recommended that for budget 2018-19, for which the budget preparation activities, in the provinces will start from November / December this year, pre-budget consultative workshops should be held with relevant provincial and district officials, local level politicians, and donors. The aim of these workshops will be to apprise