relevant United Nations agencies, NGOs, professional bodies, the private sector and academia. Terms of reference for the group should indicate the membership, tasks, expected outputs and the frequency of meetings (see example in Annex 4). • Develop a resource mobilization plan and mobilize resources Mobilizing resources is an important role of the national working group or similar body. Other tasks described above, namely generating political will and involving a wide range of stakeholders, should help direct national resources to priority interventions and raise funds from various sources. Stakeholders may also help by realigning their activities to better reach poorly-served populations. Accurately costed multi-year and annual action plans that clearly link strategies with anticipated outcomes (see section above) will enhance efforts to mobilize resources. The national working group should encourage donors to commit to resourcing the plans through on-budget commitments (preferably multi-year) in accordance with the principles of aid effectiveness. A resource mobilization plan should include inputs (e.g. transport, hardware, supply chain, etc.) from the private sector, as appropriate. • Increase coverage for key interventions Action needs to be taken on the critical areas where the evidence for impact on child mortality is the strongest. These are: vaccination; case management; breastfeeding; access to safe drinking-water, sanitation and handwashing facilities. There are a number of strategies that can be applied to increase coverage of key interventions which include increasing the roles of community health workers through task shifting (see Box 7), engaging the private sector, risk assessment to identify and target fragile and at-risk populations, and social mobilization and community engagement to promote better care seeking. Box 7. Community health workers and WASH messages Since 88% of cases of diarrhoea are due to problems with WASH, it is vital that good sanitation and hygiene practices, such as handwashing with soap, are promoted and practised. However, behaviour change is a complex process and long-term community support is required to achieve it. CHWs are ideally placed to both deliver health messages and to provide long-term support. Integrating WASH messages into existing health programmes will enable more households to be reached with these crucial sanitation and hygiene messages. MoH support is essential, along with technical and financial assistance to support communitylevel staff. In Ethiopia, the Health Extension Programme has integrated WASH into health worker activities. The promotion of WASH messages, delivered by HEWs and Community Health Promoters (CHPs), has been associated with a substantial reduction