children than AIDS, malaria and measles combined. In 2006, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a report highlighting the most common cause of death among children (Pneumonia: The Forgotten Killer of Children). The purpose was to raise the proﬁle of that neglected disease. This report is written with the same intent – to focus attention on the prevention and management of diarrhoeal diseases as central to improving child survival. Together, pneumonia and diarrhoea are responsible for an estimated 40 per cent of all child deaths around the world each year. There are lessons to be learned from past experience. An international commitment to tackle childhood diarrhoea in the 1970s and 1980s resulted in a major reduction in child deaths. This came about largely through the scaling up of oral rehydration therapy, coupled with programmes to educate caregivers on its appropriate use. But these eﬀorts lost momentum as the world turned its attention to other global emergencies. Today, only 39 per cent of children with diarrhoea in developing countries receive the recommended treatment, and limited trend data suggest that there has been little progress since 2000. This report examines the latest available information on the burden and distribution of childhood diarrhoea. It also analyses how well countries are doing in making available key interventions proven to reduce its toll. Most importantly, it lays out a new strategy for diarrhoea control, one that is based on interventions drawn from diﬀerent sectors that have demonstrated potential to save children’s lives. It sets out a 7-point plan that includes a treatment package to reduce childhood diarrhoea deaths, as well as a prevention package to make a lasting reduction in the diarrhoea burden in the medium to long term. 2 Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done New aspects of this approach include vaccinations for rotavirus, which is estimated to cause about 40 per cent of hospital admissions due to diarrhoea among children under ﬁve worldwide.3 In terms of community-wide sanitation, new approaches to increase demand to stop open defecation have proven more eﬀective than previous strategies. It has been estimated that 88 per cent of diarrhoeal deaths worldwide are attributable to unsafe water, inadequate sanitation and poor hygiene.4 Actions needed to take interventions to scale In many countries, progress has been made in the delivery or promotion of several of these interventions, particularly