the recognition of improved management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea as a shared goal and sustainability of P&D project will depend on achievement of results as perceived by the stakeholders including government, partner agencies, health facility staff and patients. Midterm Evaluation Report x Conclusion and Recommendations In the causal pathway of policy transformation and reforms, the stage of policy implementation is the most critical. In order to make the P&D Project interventions institutionalized in the existing system, the strengthening of health sector at individual, organizational and systems level is of utmost importance. A systems strengthening approach is recommended while moving forward so that the interventions under P&D become well entrenched in existing system for sustainability beyond the project life. Enabling policy environment Sustenance of federal-provincial-district linkages and coordination should be continued through existing platforms at federal level (RMNCAH Group), provincial level (CSG and TWG), and district level (District Health & Population Management Teams). The supply chain management (from DOH to health facilities and outreach) should be strengthened so as the government capacity to roll out LMIS and DHIS-02. Private sector engagement – Being a service provider of more than two-thirds of population, the project should establish wider and proactive public-private partnership models. This includes engagement with pharma industry and Drugs Regulatory Authority, institutions regulating medical, nursing and paramedical education, and professional associations. Advocacy and Communication Concerted advocacy efforts with political leadership for sustained will and commitment is important in policy transformation and reforms. Side by side, continued networking and lobbying with pharmaceutical manufacturers for local production is very important. The project should engage relevant partners for leveraging resources and coordinated actions. Scaling up and replication – Despite the devolution of health sector, which in a way made it easy to implement policy transformations in individual provinces, the project is encouraged to scale up the interventions to cover entire Pakistan. Now, after having experience of implementation in two of the big provinces of Pakistan, the provincial level interventions will be built upon the lessons learnt for replication through cross-sharing of achievements, challenges and lessons learnt among uncovered regions and provinces of Pakistan. Midterm Evaluation Report 11 1. Introduction The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in 2015 were established to promote healthy lives and well-being for all children. Third SDG is to end preventable deaths of newborns and under-5 children by 2030. Each day, together Diarrhea and Pneumonia kill