Hospital, RHC and two BHUs have been visited to assess the medicines supply chain management system. The selection of BHUs was based on the distance from the central medicines distribution point, to assess the bottlenecks of medicines distribution and lead time. 3.2.4 Warehouses Provincial central warehouse, district central warehouse, district warehouse of vertical program, health facilities medicine store of above mentioned districts have also been visited for the assessments of the storage conditions of medicines. 3.2.5 Patient Exit Interviews Caretakers of the children with Diarrhea were interviewed to evaluate the provision of medicines and dispensing practices of the hospitals. Five caretakers of Pneumonia or Diarrhea patient from each health facility were planned. 3.2.6 Private Hospitals and Pharmacies Five private practitioners and pharmacies were selected based upon the information provided by the respondents of households 3.2.7 Health Facilities & Warehouse visited Apart from the provincial offices, sample size for the collection of the data was 64 including warehouses and health facilities out of which 38 from Sindh and 26 from Punjab were visited. 3.3 Phase III: Methodology for Analysis The data of the quantitative indicators has been analyzed using LSAT analytical score. The LSAT recommended scores as mentioned in Annex 2 3.4 Study Management The study was managed by the preparation of “Inception Report” which was reviewed by UNICEF and presented to stakeholders in quarterly meeting of “Technical Working Group on Child Survival”. The suggestions were incorporated. The Government was taken on board for the collection of data. Official letters from the government were issued. Data was collected and analyzed. Draft report was presented to UNICEF which was reviewed internally and suggestions and comments were incorporated. Findings of the report were presented to the stakeholders in “National Technical Working Group on RMNCAH & N”. 3.5 Study Limitations The time for data collection and key informant interviews was limited. The patient exit interviews were limited to the availability of caretakers of patients at the time of assessment. As described in the scope of the study, the assessment was limited to department of health. The contributions of PPHI, IHS, HANDS and Micronutrient Initiative (now called Nutrition International) were considered as strengths of department of health. The district of Punjab in which Nutrition International was working was not included in the study. Their financial contributions were described in budgetary gap analysis study. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 27 3.6 Ethical Standards The study