line status of orders, increase in budget to meet the gaps, timely submission of reports from DTL, timely payments to the manufacturer; an unacceptable delay in supplies SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 42 was observed due to which health facilities were in very bad shape. So much so that even the CEOs of the companies were expecting that if the manufacturers do not supply the medicine in time, there were high chances that the budget for procurement of the medicines will lapse. The prequalified manufacturer has less manufacturing capacities. During the visits of private pharmacies, in private sector, it was observed that there was no delay in the supplies of same manufacturer (GSK for Amoxicillin suspension). It shows that these brand leaders have more interest in their regular market. Such attitudes of the manufacturers were also reported from Sindh province. Balochistan: Central procurement system was introduced to ensure the procurement of quality products. Note: It has also been noted that the IHS has been contracted as PPP for RHCs but their budget has not been released due to which the supply of medicines was affected. IHS has made an initial supply from their own budget. This needs to be replenished with the committed budget, for smooth operations of health facilities. 4.2.7 Section VII: Inventory Control The Inventory control or inventory management is heart of pharmaceutical management system. It has been observed that the inventory management was considered as the simplest method, based on the receipt, store and issuance of medicines and record. The inventory control or management was not effective; mainly, due to the lack of pharmaceutical management knowledge or lack of qualified person i.e. pharmacist. One of the outputs of proper inventory management system is to create a reasonable balance between holding cost on the one hand and purchasing and shortage cost on the other. It could be achieved by applying the techniques, like; establishing minimum and maximum stock levels, establishing the reorder levels and determining how much to reorder. Organizing the data in effective manner supports the LMIS. In Sindh, the inventory management system, used in public health facilities has shown many deficiencies in which push system of supplies was mostly observed. The medicines were distributed, based on the availability and request from HFs, rather than need. Most of the record keeping was manual and even the manual records were not fully updated. The concept and importance