makers and other stake holders to discuss the existing logistic systems for the procurement and distribution of Pneumonia and Diarrhea medicines within the country especially in Sindh and Punjab provinces. ■ To give practical and logical recommendations to the stakeholders on how to upgrade logistic management information system (LMIS); that can help in forecasting, procurement, inventory management, warehousing and distribution and also on linking of revised DHIS tools with LMIS. ■ To review the process of registration of pharmaceutical items by Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan. It also aims to submit recommendations to get this process expedited for registration of essential drugs for management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. ■ To document all above objectives in detail with in-depth situation analysis. 2.5 Scope of Evaluation In-depth situation analysis of commodities and supplies of logistic system at national, provincial, district and sub-district levels, related to Pneumonia and Diarrhea, has helped to determine the situation of SCMS. It also defines the existing policies and their relevance with recommendation of GAPPD, gaps in SCMS which include; product selection, situation of staffing, LMIS, forecasting & quantification, procurement, inventory management, warehousing, distribution of medicines, organizational support for logistics, rational utilization of drugs and situation analysis of private sector in Diarrhea and Pneumonia management. The role of Public Private Partners (PPHI, IHS and HANDS) is strengthening of department of health. Strengthening of Public Private Partners was considered as strengths of concerned department of health. Individual assessment of PPPs was not included in the scope of the study. 2.6 Intended audience The intended audience includes policy makers, government officials, stakeholders and not-for-profit organizations who deal with strengthening and capacity building of SCMS and integration of LMIS with revised DHIS. Report will also facilitate those stakeholders and firms who require new product registration from DRAP. 2.7 Study’s Contribution to the Theory of Change for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project ■ WHO has defined logistics as an art of supply and maintenance. It involves a scientific discipline and utilization of the management principles. Logistics for peripheral health facility as provision of activities including planning, budgeting, receiving and inspection, storage, inventory control, supply, distribution. Besides it includes the transportation, maintenance and repair, communications, environmental SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 19 management of health facilities, record and reporting, supervision and logistics training5 . In LMIC, lower buying power of patients, hinders the access to essential medicines; leading them to opt alternate therapies