vertical health programmes), departments of finance, departments of planning and development and outsourced entities (e.g. PPHI and IHS in Sindh) to understand methods of budget making, funds releases and expenditure management. In addition, discussions were also held with doctors in private clinics to understand treatment offered by the private sector to pneumonia and diarrhoea patients, costs of commodities to treat the diseases in the open market, and use of treatment guidelines issued by the WHO. 2.4. Data Collection for Budgetary Gap Analysis 2.4.1. Current level of funding commitment by the government To calculate current level of funding on procurement of commodities for treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia, the following data was collected from provincial health 5 Pakistan National Health Accounts 2005-06 Sindh Punjab DHQ / Civil Hospitals 4 4 THQ Hospitals 5 3 RHCs * 6 4 BHUs ** 11 7 * Including RHCs managed by IHS and BHUs managed by PPHI in Sindh 6 departments (including vertical health programmes), outsourced entities, finance departments, and planning and development departments: • Budget vs expenditure for the past three years on all types of drugs and medicines (the source was the computerised budgeting and accounting system installed at respective Finance Departments and accounting / treasury offices throughout the country), and • Quantities and unit costs of procurement (ORS, Zinc syrup 60ml and 90ml, and Amoxicillin syrup 125mg and 250mg). Quantitative records have been obtained from either IT systems (including procurement system in place in Government of Punjab) or manual registers. 2.4.2. Determination of forecasting mechanism for ascertaining funding requirements To forecast estimate funding requirements, the following data were used: 1. Standard treatment guidelines issued by WHO for Pakistan in 2006. 2. Total number of children under the age of 5 in Pakistan were estimated using the population census data and the age cohort data published by the Pakistan Bureau of Statistics. Two methods were used to estimate the number of under 5 children: a. Age cohort data of 1998 was applied to the provisional 2017 census numbers, and b. Population growth rates of 1998 were taken and population estimated for 2016. Age cohort data of 1998 was applied to estimated population of 2016. Since provisional 2017 census numbers are being challenged by different governments, it is not clear if these numbers will remain the same in the future. Hence, above two methods have been used. 3. To estimate disease burden of diarrhoea