incorporate new interventions and new ways of implementing. Some “new” strategies are already being implemented, including the use of community groups and vendors; the application of evidencebased behaviour change techniques and social marketing approaches; and the use of mobile technologies to collect data, prioritize treatment and promote health behaviour change. Other novel strategies may include different approaches to overcoming financial barriers, through for example, conditional cash transfers, vouchers and social insurance initiatives for households, or through loan guarantees and fiscal strategies to encourage investment in infrastructure. At the country level, many of the interventions require close collaboration between the Ministry of Health (MoH) and other sectors, especially the ministries responsible for water, education, energy and the environment. In many countries, the MoH has important responsibilities for water and sanitation, including training staff and CHWs to effectively promote safe drinking-water treatment, safe sanitation and handwashing with soap, in addition to ensuring that health facilities have appropriate water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) services (22). These actions will be further enhanced by promoting equity in access to services, progressing toward the elimination of poverty, protecting the quality of the environment and improving women’s status. Another way of looking at the relationship between interventions for pneumonia and diarrhoea is shown in Figure 4. The overlapping area illustrates that most of the required actions are common to both diseases. Figure 3. Protect, Prevent and Treat framework PROTECT Children by establishing good health practices from birth • Exclusive breastfeeding for 6 months • Adequate complementary feeding • Vitamin A supplementation TREAT Children who are ill from pneumonia and diarrhoea with appropriate treatment • Improved care seeking and referral • Case management at the health facility and community level • Supplies: Low-osmolarity ORS, zinc, antibiotics and oxygen • Continued feeding (including breastfeeding) PREVENT Children becoming ill from pneumonia and diarrhoea • Vaccines: pertussis, measles, Hib, PCV and rotavirus • Handwashing with soap • Safe drinking-water and sanitation • Reduce household air pollution • HIV prevention • Cotrimoxazole prophylaxis for HIV-infected and exposed children Reduce pneumonia and diarrhoea morbidity and mortality 14 Figure 4. Complementarity of pneumonia and diarrhoea interventions Pneumonia Reduced household air pollution Antibiotics for pneumonia Vaccination (PCV, Hib, pertussis) Vaccination : rotavirus Los-osmolarity ORS, zinc & continued feeding Safe water & improved sanitation Diarrhoea Protect Treat Breastfeeding promotion & support Adequate complementary feeding Prevent Measles Vaccination Handwashing with soap Prevention of HIV Improved care seeking