Updated EMLs, MSDPs, & procurement lists were also mentioned by most of the relevant stakeholders. It was revealed that provincial EMLs and procurement lists have been updated to include the new commodities and devices. In Punjab, MSDPs have also been updated, while in Sindh the MSDPs are still under revision. The procurement lists in Sindh have included the DTs whereas these lists in Punjab don’t have them yet. Despite all these policy changes, many improvements need to be made at district and community levels. Facility in-charges did complain of low supply and stock-outs of commodities, but at the same time there were participants who were satisfied with their stocks and also the DHIS reporting mechanism. A respondent mentioned, “Medicine supply is always sent according to our demand but in case of stock out we share report with DHIS. All medicines are supplied in time to avoid any stock out.” Regarding maintenance of adequate stock, a facility in-charge stated, “Staff is not trained on forecasting and quantification of medicine and supplies. Proper training should be arranged for health facility staff.” Nonetheless, the LHWs’ capacity building is of immense significance to this project as they are the actual contact persons and are aware of the ground realities of the field. All stakeholders were cognizant of their importance and contribution to the healthcare system. A provincial candidate mentioned, “Availability and acceptability of DTs in the community can only be done by capacity building at the grass root level i.e. training LHWs.” Mothers expressed their heartfelt gratitude to these community workers. A mother exclaimed, “She is just like a sister, very helpful and polite and is very caring and considerate especially towards our children.” EQ: To what extent the implementation of the project approaches worked as intended, particularly after the baseline in 2016 and subsequent adjustments? Midterm Evaluation Report 51 However, mothers weren’t much aware of DTs or low osmolarity ORS. They knew that LHWs provided them with ORS yet, had limited understanding whether they were provided with low or regular ORS. There were mixed views prevalent regarding availability of new commodities among the LHWs. Some groups were satisfied and believed that supply was adequate while others were not. Nonetheless all LHWs were unanimous that they were overburdened with other campaigns like polio. They admitted that regularization had made a positive impact on their performance. They also agreed that there is a dire need