toll of preventable child deaths. Using interventions that work Research shows that these interventions and activities work: • Exclusive breastfeeding for six months and continued breastfeeding with appropriate complementary feeding reduces the onset and severity of diarrhoea and pneumonia. • Use of vaccines against Streptococcus pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae type b, the two most common bacterial causes of childhood pneumonia, and against rotavirus, the most common cause of childhood diarrhoea deaths, substantially reduces the disease burden and deaths caused by these infectious agents. In response, an increasing number of countries are introducing these vaccines. • Use of vaccines against measles and pertussis substantially reduces pneumonia illness and death in children. • Use of simple, standardized guidelines for the identification and treatment of pneumonia and diarrhoea in the community, at first-level health facilities and at referral hospitals, such as those for integrated management of childhood illness (IMCI), substantially reduces child deaths. • Oral rehydration salts (ORS), and particularly the lowosmolarity formula, are a proven life-saving commodity for the treatment of children with diarrhoea. Use of zinc supplements with ORS to treat children with diarrhoea reduces deaths in children less than five years of age. • Innovative demand creation activities are important for achieving behaviour change and sustaining long-term preventive practices. • Water, sanitation and hygiene interventions, including access to and use of safe drinking-water and sanitation, as well as promotion of key hygiene practices provide health, economic and social benefits. • Reduction of household air pollution with improved stoves has been shown to reduce severe pneumonia. Safer and more efficient energy in the home prevents burns, saves time and fuel costs, and contributes to better development opportunities. An integrated approach for saving lives The GAPPD provides an integrated framework of key interventions proven to effectively prevent and treat childhood pneumonia and diarrhoea. Although effective interventions have been well established, they are not always promoted together to achieve maximum benefit. It is now clear that pneumonia and diarrhoea must be addressed in a coordinated manner. The determinants are often the same, hence preventive strategies and delivery platforms via health care facilities, families, communities and schools are similar. Engaging all sectors and actors The GAPPD provides a roadmap for national governments and their partners to plan and implement integrated approaches for the prevention and control of pneumonia and diarrhoea. It recognizes that for successful implementation, the effective engagement of all relevant stakeholders is