progress made so far and the lessons learnt from the project that will be used in improving the implementation of project interventions. In addition, secondary aim of this evaluation is knowledge management and reviewing potential for scalability in rest of the provinces. Therefore, the evidences generated will also help in scaling up the project in other geographical areas in Pakistan and other settings. In a nutshell, generated evaluation report would be used to inform project strategy and activity design. It would help identify and capitalize on project strengths, correct weaknesses, set Midterm Evaluation Report 16 realistic goals, identify new areas of intervention, and provide guidance about best practices for replication and possible expansion. Specific Objectives of this midterm evaluation are: • To assess the extent to which the intended outcomes of the project are achieved by comparing it with the results from the baseline studies / evaluability assessment of the project; • To document the processes involved in achievement of the outcomes and identify gaps that has affected the project to ensure achieving results; • To review and assess proper utilization of supplies provided to beneficiaries at public facilities and identify the gaps in utilization; • To assess the potential for replicability and scalability; and • To provide guidance for improvement and course correction in all areas and programme strategies, and targets to ensure effective achievement of the results. Since the implementation of Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project is midway, this is the opportune time to conduct the midterm evaluation. It will help to carve out the future course of action and course correction to achieve the goals of the project. Consequently, Theory of Change (TOC), prepared at the inception of the project and provided in the TORs is revisited and updated based on the findings of the midterm evaluation. The midterm evaluation also upholds gender mainstreaming as it gives a chance to mothers to raise issues about their child’s health and the service provision. Mostly the mothers are not heard in their own households but this evaluation provides them with a platform to voice their concerns, which would ultimately contribute in policy change. The midterm evaluation mainly focuses on the implementation and programmatic dimensions of the project and it did not include any impact assessment regarding childhood morbidity and mortality, which would require a household survey and was beyond the scope of this evaluation. Midterm Evaluation Report 17 2. Literature