3. Increase in provincial level taxation in order to allow additional fiscal space for the provision of health care services, 4. Increase in budgetary allocations proportionate to allocations in other sectors, 5. Investments in patient referral system so as to avoid patient congestions at the secondary and tertiary health care facilities. 4.1.9. Holding of pre-budget consultative sessions / seminars with different stakeholders Pre-budget discussions should be held with different policy stakeholders including government, donors, parliamentarians, and related reform projects starting from December 2017. While the main theme of pre-budget discussions would seek to influence budget making for the year 2018-19, different types of topics could be discussed with different audience. 1. Government sector Departments of Health and District Health Officials a. Review of the system of supply chain of medicines and equipment including system of forecasting of medicines procurement b. Improvements in budgetary releases to district health organisations, and DDOs c. Methods to ensure timely submission of procurement work orders by district DDOs and timely supply of medicines by manufacturers d. Discussions on introduction of co-packing and dispersal tablets for zinc sulphate and Amoxicillin e. Discussions on the policy to reduce out of pocket expenditure. 2. Parliamentarians more specifically the local MPAs and MNAs a. Key statistics related to health sector in the district / constituency including state of health facilities, availability of medic and para-medic staff, availability of medicines and equipment, and disease burden related to diarrhoea and pneumonia b. Measures to enhance health service delivery and policy to treat diarrhoea and pneumonia cases c. Budget provided to and spent by health facilities and providers in the district / constituency. 3. Donor coordination group on reduction of diarrhoea and pneumonia 27 A donor coordination group can be formed to synergise efforts on reduction of diarrhoea and pneumonia. The coordination group, on regular basis, can discuss the following: a. Key initiatives in reduction of mortality and morbidity in under 5 children causes by diarrhoea and pneumonia b. Policy changes implemented and their impacts on mortality and morbidity c. Evaluations, d. Aid. 4.1.10. Promotion of the use of co-packaged ORS and Zinc Sulphate for the treatment of diarrhoea and Amoxicillin suspension for the treatment of pneumonia amongst private sector general practitioners Role of the private sector is quite sufficient in Pakistan. The government should therefore, promote the use of standard treatment guidelines, as recommended by WHO, amongst private sector general physicians