mentoring by Lady Health Supervisors (LHSs) and six monthly refresher sessions. After two years of programme implementation, care seeking for treatment of pneumonia by LHWs increased to 50%. This shift in care seeking from LHWs has brought quality care closer to home and decreased visits to referral facilities from 46.7% at baseline to 18.9%, a substantial reduction in burden on already overloaded referral facilities. Source: Bari et al. Community case management of severe pneumonia with oral amoxicillin in children aged 2–59 months in Haripur district, Pakistan: a cluster randomized trial. Published online November 11, 2011, DOI:10.1016/ S0140-6736(11)61140-9 and Sadruddin S (personal communication – unpublished data). Box 14. Baby Zinc mass media campaign The Baby Zinc mass media campaign was developed to spread messages on the benefits of zinc and ORS to fight childhood diarrhoea, which is a leading cause of child death in Bangladesh. The communication strategy was based on understanding the community—their beliefs, culture, language and practices—through formative research. Multiple channels were used to sustain interest and generate demand. Extensive pre-testing ensured proper clarity, acceptability and understanding of the messages. A unique slogan, which incorporated a sound icon, was created. Baby Zinc communication was strategically placed in the media. An evaluation carried out after initial release showed almost 95% product awareness in urban and semi-urban locations, with 50% in rural areas, primarily from television. Commercials were created for television viewers and for radio audiences, catering to their different needs. Printed materials were developed with customized messages to cater to audiences from both the demand and supply ends. Promotional activities focused on direct means of communication aimed at the target population, including courtyard meetings, folk songs and magic shows. The Baby Zinc slogan has become very popular and sustains the growth of zinc use via word-of-mouth. A 13-episode weekly television drama serial on zinc treatment, titled Bhalo Achhi Bhalo Theko, was aired on Bangladesh government television. Set in a rural context, the drama was full of humour and entertainment while carrying messages on the use of zinc along with ORS for the treatment of diarrhoea among children aged from 6 months to 5 years. Source: Adapted from Suzy News, October 2008, ICDDR, B, http://www. icddrb.org/what-we-do/publications/cat_view/52-publications/10042-icddrbperiodicals/10071-suzy-news/10095-vol-5-no-2-english-2008/11671-baby-zincmass-media-campaign-dhansiris-experience. 28 Box 15. Communication strategies Communication strategies to inform and motivate individual, community and social change are vital for child survival programmes. To this end, UNICEF and its partners recently developed the Communication Framework for