monitored at two levels. The district health administration performs regular monitoring and supervisory visits. Secondly, LHS is also supposed to visit 20-25 LHWs on monthly basis and check the stock outs, its’ excess or misuse of medicine. Special visits are also arranged in case of any emergency or extraordinary situation. It was suggested that for better monitoring and supervision of LHWs, DCs should be given powers of accountability but not necessarily the right of termination of LHWs. Vertical programs especially the LHW program is facing serious obstacles in monitoring due to financial constraints. Barriers like lack of funds for repair and maintenance and POL came out as factors severely affecting the ability of programs to conduct monitoring. 4.1.8 Monitoring and Learning​ Technical experts and health managers uniformly stressed the need of a robust monitoring system for effective implementation for any intervention. It was found that the facility and community based staff is supervised by district health managers. Districts have autonomy to plan their own supervisory and monitoring visits, which are notified to primary level facilities. Similarly, DHQ hospitals are monitored on weekly basis; whereas THQ Hospitals, RHCs and BHUs are visited randomly. Managers stressed the need of an integrated monitoring system that involves the vertical programs as well. It was found that the Sindh with the support of USAID has built a system for monitoring. The District Health Planning and Management teams have been established for planning and monitoring at the district level. It was found that the districts planned monitoring and supervisory visits at the district level. A monitoring and evaluation cell in the office of DGHS gathers all the data. A dedicated focal person is responsible for monitoring of vertical programs and prioritized health challenges. ​Punjab has made significant progress in the accountability of health related interventions. It was found that each district of Punjab has a District monitoring officer. This official has a dedicated team of MEAs (Monitoring and Evaluation Assistants). These MEAs report specified indicators on android platforms developed by Punjab Information Technology board. These indicators are then compiled in PITB, later to be shared with the Policy and Strategic Planning Unit (PSPU) and the Chief Minister of Punjab’s Special Monitoring Unit (CM-SMU). PSPU was found to have a played major role in monitoring related processes of government. More importantly, it was found to be responsible for ensuring commodities availability through monitoring in public health sector