accurate. LoORS was particularly popular with facilities in both provinces. Prescribing co-packaging of zinc DT and Lo ORS was still a common practice in Punjab. In spite of admitting the efficacy of DTs, quite a few facility in-charges revealed that they did not prescribe DTs as syrup was more popular with the patients. Prescribing DTs was just not a common practice. DTs were easier to store so they would let the stock be, and prescribe syrup. An interesting suggestion came from a facility in-charge in Punjab who opined that since DT is a new commodity and its acceptability is currently low thus, “It should have a price, even if Rs. 5-10 in order for the patient to value it. Free stuff has no value and when people are not even familiar with the usage, they just throw it away.” District managers could not emphasize the role of LHWs enough in managing these illnesses as they considered them the backbone of the community health. Although LHWs were quite pleased with their regularization, a few managers from Punjab mentioned that they have become a little relaxed and at times rather negligent of their duties due to their permanent employment status. EQ: To what extent has the project achieved its goals in enhancing the health outcomes especially of under five children in the catchment communities in Sindh and Punjab target districts? Midterm Evaluation Report 61 Finding: The project had certain unexpected effects (both positive and negative) on the management outcomes of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. During the implementation of the project, certain unexpected effects occurred. On the positive side, it included the revision and updating of Essential Medicines List in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The list was updated with inclusion of dispersible tablets in this province, which was not part of project intervention areas but the provincial policy makers and planners were regularly attending the federal coordination forum of Technical Working Group. Similarly, the revision of DHIS tools in the target provinces of Punjab and Sindh did not stop at the inclusion of updated Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities but also included indicators on maternal health, immunization and breast-feeding practices. The only negative effect identified through the project was the perceptions of the mothers and caregivers developed after the introduction of dispersible tablets. Rural community did not realise the difference between a regular tablet and dispersible tablet. This led to their lack of