to buy medicine is their purchasing power…” This implied that the customer would choose between syrup and DT according to the pricing. Taste/Smell as a Determinant – There was a common perception among some pharmacy in-charges that syrup had a particular taste/smell that was either preferred by children or unpopular among them. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab explained why DT would be preferred over syrup, “Patient will prefer DTs over syrup because syrup has smell issue and DTs are more effective.” Some of the Pharmacy incharges were of the view that syrup was a better option because of its taste. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab expanded, “The only preferred form of medicine for children is syrup because it is easy to use and comes in different flavors like banana, strawberry etc. DTs don’t have any taste.” Tablets: Not for Children – Pharmacy in-charges who were unaware what DTs were and even a few of those who claimed to be aware about DTs, they believed that Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 103 tablets were not suitable for children. It seemed that the word “tablet” prompted the notion that tablets were hard to swallow by children; hence syrup was a better choice. This perception was more prevalent in Sindh as pharmacy in-charges from this region had the following views: “The children who cannot consume tablets are given syrup.” “Demand of syrup in children is comparatively more.” “The age factor is under consideration for children. The children who cannot consume tablets are given syrup.” Selecting a Pharmacy There were various considerations for customers in choosing a pharmacy as discussed by the pharmacy in-charges and they believed it was customers’ personal choice as to what aspect they preferred. Pharmacy in-charges believed that the location of the pharmacy also played a significant role in convenience and accessibility for customers. Most pharmacy in-charges mentioned that it was at the discretion of the customer to get medicines from wherever they wanted. They assumed that customers came to them by choice and were not referred by anyone. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab affirmed, “Patients come to our pharmacy by choice without being referred or influenced by doctors from such public sector health facilities.” Another pharmacy in-charge from Punjab verified, “Neither private nor government health facility refer patients for procuring medicines to us, although we usually offer discounts as well.” Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 104 A few Pharmacy