communities will need to understand that this new vaccine will only prevent a portion of all diarrhoea cases, and education about the vaccine should include promotion of other preventive strategies as well as advice for home treatment and when to seek care. Surveillance to monitor the impact of the vaccine on diarrhoea cases can also be used to guide other aspects of prevention and control. Sources: Parashar, et al., ‘Global Illness and Death Caused by Rotavirus Disease in Children’, Emerging Infectious Diseases, vol. 9, no. 5, 2003, pp. 565-572; Murphy, T.V., et al., ‘Intussusception Among Infants Given Oral Rotavirus Vaccine’, New England Journal of Medicine, vol. 344, 2001, pp. 564-572; Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) on Immunization, Meeting minutes, April 2009, <http ://www.who.int/immunization/sage/en/>, accessed June 2009. BOX 10 Rotavirus vaccination: Urgently needed worldwide 32 Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done allocation, including rotavirus vaccination, which has now been recommended for global introduction. At the same time, national and district health planners should include diarrhoea control in programmes targeting childhood malaria, pneumonia and HIV, and ensure support to accelerate coverage of proven interventions. ■ Reinstate diarrhoea prevention and treatment as a cornerstone of community-based primary health care. To eﬀectively control diarrhoea, treatment and prevention measures should be integrated into the training of health workers and reﬂected in supply chains and programme monitoring. Expanding the reach of health services into communities to deliver integrated interventions is critical. These include communitybased promotion of breastfeeding, hygiene and sanitation and the provision of low-osmolarity ORS and zinc to children with diarrhoea. ■ Ensure that low-osmolarity ORS and zinc are adopted as policy in all countries. Clear policy guidance is needed to ensure that the latest recommendations for treating childhood It is important that implementation of the prevention package is approached in a concerted way, since single interventions alone are likely to result in lesser overall impact. For example, diarrhoea caused by rotavirus cannot be prevented solely by improvements in water and sanitation. And rotavirus vaccine does not prevent other pathogens (such as E. coli and Shigella) from causing diarrhoea. The package should be accompanied by clear, targeted and integrated behaviour and social change communication strategies to improve uptake by families and communities. Action needed now to reduce child deaths from diarrhoea ■ Mobilize and allocate resources for diarrhoea control. Diarrhoea remains a leading killer of children, though the tools