in some cases, the use of zinc for diarrhoea treatment or artemisinin combination therapy for malaria treatment. Regulatory, legislative and administrative barriers to iCCM were also noted. • Supply issues: In some countries, vaccines, zinc and treatment for pneumonia and diarrhoea are unavailable in sufficient quantities or as appropriate formulations for children. • Sustaining vaccine coverage: While there has been good progress in introducing new vaccines, sustaining and increasing vaccine coverage for all vaccines remains an issue in some countries. • Surveillance: The quality of routine data collection to measure progress on pneumonia and diarrhoea control is often inadequate, and health information systems do not usually include community-level activities. As a result, community-level data are not available for decisionmaking at higher levels. • Monitoring and evaluation: Indicators and plans for monitoring and evaluation, and established mechanisms for supervision have yet to be agreed upon in several countries. 17 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) Box 2. Major opportunities identified by countries during pneumonia and diarrhoea regional workshops • Political commitment: Strong political will to achieve MDGs from global, regional and national levels, and strong partnerships for child survival. • Improved access: Accelerated expansion of primary health care facilities in a number of countries. • New vaccines: Introduction of new vaccines (PCV, rotavirus). • Support for change: Favourable and conducive environment for policy dialogue and change. • Resources: Improved financing mechanisms by governments. 7 . Focus on equity and universal health coverage Pneumonia and diarrhoea deaths are not distributed evenly through the global population or within any one country. The highest death rates from these diseases are recorded in the least-resourced countries and in the poorest populations within those countries. Children of lower socioeconomic class or caste, minority ethnic groups and those living in isolated geographical areas suffer from cumulative inequities. These children are subject to higher prevalence rates of pneumonia and diarrhoea, and more difficult access to health services despite being in greater need of those services. Evidence suggests that children from families in the poorest wealth quintile are less likely to receive high impact interventions than those in the richest quintile (see Figure 6). These populations are also the least likely to have access to improved water and sanitation (53) or to have access to clean, safe household energy services (54). This situation demands strengthened efforts to reach disadvantaged populations