children receives no treatment for Diarrhea and 59% of them remain untreated for Pneumonia. 1.2 Purpose The pharmaceutical logistics assessment of Pakistan was carried out through UNICEF and Bill Melinda Gates Foundation. The assessment was particularly conducted for DoH Sindh and Punjab. The provincial level assessment has been conducted for Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Balochistan and FATA for advocacy purpose. The main purpose of the assessment was to provide the quantitative data on the supply of selected medicines and commodities at public health facilities and private pharmacies. The assessment was conducted to provide an in-depth situation analysis of pharmaceutical supply chain management system at all levels i.e. National, Provincial, District and Sub-district levels. The health service delivery levels include central warehouse (at provincial and district level), health facility and medicines store (at sub-district level). Vertical programs (IRMNCH, LHW program,PNC, and MNCH) were also assessed to provide the baseline information to track changes and improvement in pharmaceutical supply chain management system. To attain sustainability of availability of Diarrhea and Pneumonia medicines certain measures should be taken for local level production. The study also provides the base line knowledge for the registration of new formulations (Amoxicillin DT and combo pack of ORS & Zinc supplementation) with Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan. DoH and development partners required this information to explore national/provincial drug requirements and to measure the performance of logistics supply chain system. Moreover, they wanted some basic information regarding the duration of availability of essential medicines for Diarrhea and Pneumonia at health facilities and the reasons of stock outs. 1Reproductive, maternal, newborn, and child health in Pakistan: challenges and opportunities: Health Transitions in Pakistan, The Lancet Volume 381, No. 9884, p2207-2218, 22 June 2013 SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 9 1.3 Objectives The supply chain management system assessment has following objectives: • To analyze the current supplies logistic system for Pneumonia and Diarrhea management through in-depth situation analysis for public sector health facilities and vertical programs dealing in management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia. • To consult with key opinion leaders, decision makers and other stake holders to discuss the existing logistic systems for the procurement and distribution of Pneumonia and Diarrhea medicines within the country especially in Sindh and Punjab provinces. • To give practical and logical recommendations to the stakeholders on how updated logistic management information system (LMIS) can be introduced in supply chain management for forecasting, procurement, inventory management, warehousing