DT Co-packaging of ORS and Zinc is not permitted under current rules and regulations of DRAP. It was argued, “Marketing of two products in a single pack cannot be allowed because the two products may have different expiry dates, dosages of varied durations and the fact the two products got registered independently. Moreover, if allowed this may risk over use or under use or wastage of either item.” However, DRAP had no objection to packaging after purchase of items separately. In 2016, Micronutrient piloted distribution of co-packaged ORS with Zinc Syrup in Gujrat District. The following table compares low osmolarity ORS production potential of the companies taken on board. Factors Influencing Supply Capability & Capacity to Use Technology Technical strength of pharmaceutical companies varies and depends partly on the product lines under focus of the management of particular industry and the availability of resources, whether technical or financial. Some are more apt in manufacturing injectables, while others focus on tablets and syrups. Generally companies which do not manufacture particular generic form of microbial in tablets or syrup forms are less likely to prepare dispersible form (the four above pharmaceuticals which do not manufacture Amoxicillin DT do not produce it in any form). However exceptions are there, such as Well n Well never produced Zinc syrup but opted for DT. Moreover, very few have had any experience of manufacturing dispersible formulations or even got any feasibility plan Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 150 developed and is thus reluctant to begin. Some may have issues in accessing the technology. Profitability Profitability always remains top priority of any businessman, said a Marketing Advisor, “It is the universal truth, even if someone pretends to believe otherwise.” Majority of those interviewed considered pricing of the products a little on the lower side, however found it reasonable enough to attract investors, provided quantity demanded is handsome and benefit accrued through economy of scale. Others suggested if government could provide incentive by lowering the tariff on import of raw material. Due to relatively cheaper options available for APIs in China and India, suppliers in Europe are losing their bargaining power over time. However, Marketing Manager of Amson Pharma Islamabad viewed profitability in a different way, “Even if profit margin remains meager and rates unchanged, it will still be profitable to produce pneumonia and diarrhea commodities, if our lab gets due recognition by the WHO and UNICEF, in