are most reliable and do not require repetition in Pakistan. Once approval is granted, such formulation is included in the pharmacopeia and companies importing such molecules later do not require reregistration. In compliance with the Drug Act 2012, a checklist for Scrutinization of Registration Application/Dossiers was developed by the Pharmaceutical Evaluation Cell within DRAP to evaluate registration applications. The Registration Board approved a Checklist (Form 5) containing 33 items in its 240th meeting, which is to be filled and submitted to DRAP by the pharmaceutical Company seeking registration of specific drug along with supporting data/documents, including proposed master formulation based on Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 130 physiochemical characteristics of active and Inactive components of formulation. Along with above, the applicant (Production Manager and Director/Managing Director of the manufacturing company) has to give written undertaking counter signed by Quality Control Manager, to submit the following: • Stability Studies • Pharmaceutical Development Studies (Proposed Master Formulations, Rationale, physiochemical characteristics and detail of drug substance) • Validation of analytical testing methods • Process Validation The data and findings of stability testing are submitted to DRAP with application for inspection. This is discussed in the DRAP’s board and its inspection team visits the company to conduct onsite inspection for CRF 21 compliance and to verify results. After fulfillment of all the requirements, the drug in question is formerly accepted for registration. For the imported drugs, the registration process is essentially same accept for few additional requirements. The company has to meet following conditions before getting imported product registered in Pakistan for marketing, distribution and sales. It must have: a) Original and legalized GMP certificate of country of origin proving compliance OR b) Free Sale Certificate of drug from regulatory body of country of origin c) Sole Agency Agreement (SAA) with manufacturer of the imported drug for getting the product registered in Pakistan. d) Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (COPP) Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 131 e) Approved prescribing Information (PI) f) Credentials/Site Master file g) Authentic Clinical Data/Clinical Trial h) Clinical justification i) Few samples of finished product If the manufacturer does not belong to any of the reference countries (e.g. China, Malaysia) but the drug molecule is already entered in the pharmacopeia, then DRAP’s TWO member Inspection team visits the manufacturer. However, if the manufacturer has already been inspected and approved by US FDA, then this step is exempted. The reports of these