full supply products Sindh: The complete supply of products at any level, for maximum and minimum, were not properly established. Punjab: The Minimum levels of the tracer drugs is established. The minimum quantity level was also set as an SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 105 Indicators LSAT Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs respected at all levels so stock levels generally fall between maximum and minimum? indicator of health facility assessment conducted by MEAs which is 45 days stock availability. This was done at the time of assessment of the health facility. Even if the stock was less than the mentioned quantity, it was not considered as stock out. Mainly, the stocks out status of these medicines were observed. 5 a. Are stock levels (maximum and minimum) for full supply products reviewed periodically? Yes, through MEAs on monthly basis and also the stock outs has been reported on monthly basis in DHIS. b. Do reviews take into account changes in transport and information availability? The information of stock out status was noted at the district level. On receiving the medicine’s demand, the stocks are issued from central warehouse. There was no automated system for it. 6 How are products that cannot be maintained in full supply allocated at different levels: The Medicines are not included in the full supply (tracer medicines) were issued on the basis of the availability at the higher level (district warehouse). If the health facility has DDO power, they can purchase the medicines as Local Purchase; if required, depending upon the availability of the budget. 7 Are there written provisions for the redistribution of overstocked supplies? 1 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 8 How are stock imbalances handled by supervisors/managers at the following levels: b. regional? It is more related to the district level. c. district? On the release of the budget, the required medicines were directly purchased from the manufacturer. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 106 Indicators LSAT Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs d. service delivery points?