spending currently in order to treat all morbid population under the age of 5. However, the government can reduce this ratio through a number of mechanisms: • Increasing efficiency in public health expenditure more specifically, the government can increase efficiency in expenditure if: ▪ The use of co-packing of ORS and Zinc is encouraged 24 ▪ The government moves towards the use of dispersible tablets of Zinc and Amoxicillin. Through the use of tablets, the average overhead costs e.g. transportation, and warehousing are likely to reduce ▪ Use of ARI Timers and Pulse Oximeters are likely to enhance patient diagnosis. • Government invests funds in prevention of diarrhoea and pneumonia through vaccines such as PCV and ROTA virus however, it is beyond the scope of this study to study the costs and efficiency levels of vaccines. • Governments investments in education of mothers, water and sanitation to prevent diarrhoea etc. 4.1.3. An early completion of Central Rate Contracts During the study visits to 11 districts, it was noted that rate contracts were generally finalised in the months of November and December 2016. For this reason, in many districts the procurement process started late. In some cases, the procurement order was forwarded to the medicine manufacturing companies in the month of May 2017. In such cases, the manufacturing companies refused to supply required medicines by June 2017. For this reason, it is recommended that the government should aim to complete its central rate contract process ideally by 31st of July and maximum by 31st August of each year. To complete this process, efforts on quantitative procurement requirements, and finalisation of bidding documents will need to be finalised by first week of July each year. Information of the central rate contracts should be communicated to procurement entities (DDOs) before the end of the first quarter (September) each fiscal year. 4.1.4. Procurement and distribution system in case of vertical health programmes During the study visits to 10 districts, it was noted that in a number of cases, the lady health workers did not have the required supply of ORS, Zinc sulphate syrup and Amoxicillin suspension. In addition, since the Federal Government is likely to withdraw from its obligation to adequately fund the vertical health programmes, the responsibility would now fall on the provincial governments to appropriately fund these programmes. The provincial governments have moved towards integrating lady health workers’ programme, community mid-wives’ programme