as long as children continue to remain susceptible to the disease and are not eﬀectively treated once it begins. Evidence has shown that children with poor health and nutritional status are more vulnerable to serious infections like acute diarrhoea and suﬀer multiple episodes every year. At the same time, acute and prolonged diarrhoea seriously exacerbates poor health and malnutrition in children, creating a deadly cycle. In the 1970s and 1980s, the international community committed itself to reducing child mortality from diarrhoea largely by scaling up the use of oral rehydration therapy – a low-cost and highly eﬀective solution – coupled with programmes to educate caregivers on its appropriate use. The eﬀort met with great success. Yet today only about 39 per cent of children with diarrhoea in the developing world receive oral rehydration therapy and continued feeding, a ﬁgure that has changed little since 2000. This report sets out a 7-point strategy for comprehensive diarrhoea control that includes a treatment package to reduce child deaths, and a prevention package to reduce the number of diarrhoea cases for years to come. The report looks at treatment options such as low-osmolarity ORS and zinc tablets, as well as prevention measures such as the promotion of breastfeeding, vitamin A supplementation, immunization against rotavirus – a leading cause of diarrhoea – and proven methods of improving water, sanitation and hygiene practices. Diarrhoea’s status as the second leading killer of children under ﬁve is an alarming reminder of the exceptional vulnerability of children in developing countries. Saving the lives of millions of children at risk of death from diarrhoea is possible with a comprehensive strategy that ensures all children in need receive critical prevention and treatment measures. V Ann M. Veneman Executive Director United Nations Children’s Fund Dr Margaret Chan Director-General World Health Organization Executive summary Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done Executive summary 1 D iarrhoea remains the second leading cause of death among children under ﬁve globally. Nearly one in ﬁve child deaths – about 1.5 million each year – is due to diarrhoea. It kills more young children than AIDS, malaria and measles combined. In 2006, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the World Health Organization (WHO) issued a report highlighting the most common cause of death among children (Pneumonia: The Forgotten Killer of Children). The purpose was to raise the proﬁle of that neglected disease.