relative relationship of these stakeholders is analysed keeping in view the outcomes required from these relationships. The relative patterns of these relationships are discussed in detail in the accountability section. Table 12: Stakeholders Sector Macro Level Meso Level Micro Level Public/ Government MNHSRC, DRAP, Provincial Health Department, Vertical programs District Health Officer, District Coordinator of Vertical Programs Medical officers, Health facility Incharges, Community Health Workers Patients Private FPAP, PPA, Pharmaceutical manufacturers Regional Management of Pharmaceutical manufacturers, Private practitioners, Representatives of the Pharmaceutical manufacturers, Community Development Partners WHO, UNICEF (Federal Level) WHO, UNICEF (Provincial and District Level) Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 186 Summary of Theory of Change and Accountability Framework Pathway of Change and Strategic Areas • Policy Change • Updated Clinical Management Practices • Local manufacturing of the proposed commodities • Strengthened Logistics and Procurement System • Budgeting for the Updated Commodities Policy Change • Policy makers and decision makers are made aware of the global recommendations and they are committed to bring the necessary changes. • Child Survival Groups are committed, capable and empowered and for the required changes. • National Vision and Provincial Strategies emphasize the importance of Child Survival. • Essential Medicine Lists and Procurement Lists contain the required commodities. • DHIS and MIS of the LHW program reflect the new commodities • IMNCI guidelines are updated according to the global recommendations. • A strong monitoring mechanism for the Pneumonia and Diarrhea Indicators is in place. Local Manufacturing • Establish and operate the production promotion working group (MNHSR&C, DRAP, Pharmaceuticals, PPA, UNICEF) Updated Clinical Management • Training programs are in place for the health care providers • Prescribing behaviour of the health care providers in the private sector is according to the global recommendations Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 187 Lessons Learned & Conclusions Drawn This chapter encapsulates all the major takeaways from the findings of this research for improving the treatment of pneumonia and diarrhea and to inform the policy decision making. The chapter is organized as policy environment, clinical management practices and pharmaceutical feasibility sections. Policy Environment Studying the policy environment in treating fatal diseases like pneumonia and diarrhea led to many revelations. In the post devolution scenario, the provincial health sector strategies have a main guiding role for the areas related to service delivery. Most of the provincial health sector strategies are on the verge of completing the terms for which they were