essential commodities for improving management of childhood diarrhea and pneumonia and increasing child survival by the end of 2019. The scope of the study was to identify the barriers and facilitators to the process of this policy change. In this regard, detailed consultations were held with the civil servants, vertical program managers, leading paediatricians, health policy experts, public health experts, MNCH specialists, and representatives from development partners and technical experts at the federal and provincial level. Moreover, health officials and vertical program coordinators at the district level were consulted for an in depth analysis into the factors that might facilitate or hinder the management of pneumonia and diarrhea according to the global recommendations. The analysis of the findings is being presented in the thematic areas relevant to the policy change, translation and implementation. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 50 Political Will & Commitment It was reported that recently the focus on the health has increased at the political level. Specifically, Punjab has improved the health budget and the health department has been bifurcated into two departments for an efficient service delivery. However, the managers stressed the need of advocacy with the federal and provincial governments for the commitment required to manage the pneumonia and diarrhea at the health system level. Quoting the example of efforts to control the Dengue fever in Punjab and Polio in Sindh, managers highlighted the need of a strong political commitment at the top level. However, it was noted that these special efforts have compromised the focus on efforts like EPI. As said by a Technical Expert in Sindh, “All our efforts are funnelled towards the eradication of polio but it has compromised the ability of the system to respond towards other diseases.” Similar concerns were echoed by the health managers in Punjab as well. Another overwhelming suggestion that came from the managers and the technical experts was that the government should take the lead role in its implementation. Donor led programs have to be championed by the government in order to make it sustainable. Moreover, it was suggested that the Child Survival group should include a member from the health secretariat. An overwhelming finding was that those projects have more success rates where they are backed by bureaucracy. Furthermore it was found out that the recent IT based communication platforms have increased the communication between the stakeholders. These platforms have increased the connectivity of the