adhered to in order to ensure quality treatment and availability of the essential commodities for improving management of childhood diarrhea and pneumonia and increasing child survival by the end of 2019. The project also focuses on incorporating pneumonia and diarrhoea management commodities into essential medicine lists, advocate for increased resource allocation for commodities; and catalyze the initial stages of the commodities procurement process with government authorities and pharmaceutical manufacturing stakeholders, while updating and strengthening supply chain and logistics management systems to track the respective commodities. To further supplement the planned work of the project, commodity availability targets will be developed to determine its success, and results will be documented and disseminated as learnings for complementary in-country initiatives and long-term sustainability. The primary outcomes to be achieved through this project include the following: Outcome 1: Policy Change Existing national/provincial policies and guidelines are updated in line with global recommendations (WHO/GAPPD) for management of diarrhea and pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan by the end of 2019. Outcome 2: Policy Translation Translation of revised and updated pneumonia and diarrhea treatment guidelines into relevant action plans by all provincial/areas health departments in Pakistan by the end of 2019. Outcome 3: Policy Implementation Availability of essential commodities (amoxicillin DT, zinc DT, co-packaged ORS and zinc, oxygen, ARI timers, and pulse oximeters) for treatment of childhood pneumonia and diarrhea in Pakistan by the end of 2019. Outcome 4: Knowledge Management Translation of lessons learned from this investment to other settings/broader geographical areas within Pakistan. This four year Project has completed its first six months inception phase (Jan-June2016) and implementing activities are planned for the remaining period of 2016 and onward. A baseline landscape analysis will help determine the situation on ground existing policies and their relevance with recommendation of GAPPD. This baseline analysis will be based on set benchmarks from evaluability study. The information 1 Reproductive, maternal, newborn, and child health in Pakistan: challenges and opportunities: Health Transitions in Pakistan, The Lancet Volume 381, No. 9884, p2207-2218, 22 June 2013 2 National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS) Pakistan and ICF International Inc., Pakistan Demographic Health Survey 2012-13, <www.nips.org.pk/abstract_files/PDHS%20Final%20Report%20as%20of%20Jan%2022-2014.pdf > 3 Interventions to address deaths from childhood pneumonia and diarrhea equitably: what works and at what cost? The Lancet, Volume 381, No. 9875, p. 1417-1429, 20 April 2013. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 204 contained in the Landscape Analysis Report will yield insights into the