and the manufacturer’s capacity. The responsibilities of logistics, other than procurement, such as, inventory management, staffing and the product selection were served by the district team, under the supervision of CEO. ■ SoP of medicines forecasting and quantification (based on WHO guidelines) has been provided to all districts through PSPU with the support of TRF plus in the form of forecasting and quantification tool. While after the establishment of Primary and Secondary healthcare Department, the system has been modified and incorporated in the e-procurement. ■ The activities used to coordinate key logistics tasks, besides those responsible for logistics were official letters, meeting including online meetings and joint work plans. ■ In DHQs, mainly Pharmacist was responsible for logistics management, while hiring of logistics officers at DHQ and THQ was in progress. Balochistan: MSD and PPHI collectively takes the responsibility of LMU. The role of MSD in the procurement of medicines while rest of all the responsibilities like distribution, inventory management etc. has been done by PPHI. ■ The MSD, acts as central level position for the procurement of medicines, while handling and inventory management is being done by the store keepers. Khyber Pakhtunkhwa: In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, at provincial level, LUM was Procurement cell and Medicines Coordination cell (MCC). The districts were facilitated with logistics staff. ■ The MCC, provides the central rate contract list of prequalified manufacturers, while the product selection and forecasting is done at districts level. Handling, inventory management and warehousing is mainly done by logistics officers and storekeepers at district level. ■ The logistics officers have the same level of authorities for decision making as the other functional unit heads FATA: The procurement is managed by procurement committee / cell. Forecasting of medicines is consumption based, which does not fulfill the WHO recommendations. The central level position of logistics is managed at agencies. The activities used to coordinate key logistics tasks among those responsible for logistics were official letters and meeting. The key logistics positions were DHO and Store Keeper, Agency, and the Store keepers. FP&PHS / IRMCNH & NP ■ The vertical programs have already selected products, so there is no role of LMU in selection of products. The activities used to coordinate key logistics tasks among those responsible for logistics were official letters, meeting and work plans. The logistics staff include Logistics Coordinator at provincial level, the Store Keeper at District level, ■ In Punjab