reporting and documentation 10. How pneumonia and diarrhea cases are routinely recorded and reported? Probe: i. What is the frequency of reporting? ii. Where these reports are sent? Are they entered in DHIS? iii. Do you receive feedback from health authorities? iv. Do health authorities use your data for managing supplies and improving quality of services? Community behavior and response 11. What key challenges and constraints do you face regarding community behaviour? Probe: i. Do majority of clients like receiving drugs or prefer home remedies? Does the beneficiaries prefer DTs over syrups or vice versa for treatment of pneumonia and diarrhoea? ii. Do you face any resistance or displeasure during your home visits? iii. Do you feel any security threat while working? iv. Do the community respect you for your role and services? Social beliefs and taboos 12. What is the general level of awareness about health issues among the local community? Probe: i. Do you feel cultural beliefs and practices could be one reason for not seeking proper treatment for pneumonia and diarrhea? If yes, please explain. ii. Are there taboos regarding diet for children suffering from diarrhea and pneumonia? If yes, give examples. iii. Do you think, raising awareness level of the community can improve utilization of services for pneumonia and diarrhea at community and facility level Suggestions for improvement of services 13. I’d now like to ask you to summarize your role in the provision of pneumonia and diarrhea services? What else do you think you need to improve the quality of pneumonia and diarrhea services at community level? Midterm Evaluation Report 113 Probe: iii. Do you agree with your role as agent of change in provision of health services at community? Please describe your experience in this regard. iv. To what extent are you satisfied with your services? If not much satisfied, why not? v. What must be done to improve the quality of pneumonia and diarrhea services at community level? Midterm Evaluation Report 114 FGDs GUIDE FOR GENERAL PRACTITIONERS Name of District Number of Participants Date During the initial discussion to explain the evaluation, the interviewer and participant should have had the opportunity to introduce themselves and to make small talk to break the ice. You can begin by saying these words to the group of participants: ‘As you know Pneumonia and Diarrhea are common causes of deaths among children under age 5. We are