resulting in lack of supply on the basis of actual demand. However, Sindh has recently developed and implemented an evidence-based system that generates the demand on need. Previously the lack of focus on both Pneumonia and Diarrhea could be gauged from the fact that Pneumonia was not listed as a separate disease in DHIS, while Diarrhea was listed with dysentery. However, in continuation of the recent amendment in emphasis on both these silent killers, Punjab has developed a new PC-1 for upgrading DHIS, which will have mechanism to collect and disseminate data of disease prevalence on daily basis and generate alert for any suspected disease out-break/epidemic to ensure timely response. Similarly, Sindh is also in the process of upgrading and revising DHIS tools and procedure manual including indicators about availability of Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT and Low osmolarity ORS in the stock available at the facility. It also has a provision of entering OPD data for Diarrhea and dysentery separately for under 5 children. All the GAPPD recommendations shall be included in the updated version of DHIS. Although both provinces face serious reservations regarding the validity and reliability of data in the DHIS and MIS of LHWs, Punjab is preparing a ‘Data Validation Manual’ for improving the quality of data. One of the main barrier in policy translation has been the lack of adequate human resources especially dearth of epidemiologists at the district and provincial level. Training, especially on IMNCI has remained a challenge, however support of UNICEF and programs like IRMNCH is playing a proactive role in capacity building of relevant staff. Though districts have autonomy to plan their own supervisory and monitoring visits, which are notified to primary level facilities and for community based workers, barriers like lack of funds for repair, maintenance and POL severely affect the ability to conduct monitoring. The policy analysis demonstrated the need for an integrated monitoring system that involved the vertical programs. Sindh with the support of USAID has built a system for monitoring, whereas Punjab has made significant progress in the accountability of health related interventions. Chief Ministers Special Monitoring Unit (CM-SMU) has been tasked with the accountability related to the prioritized areas of intervention in the Punjab. This monitoring system has arguably created a huge sense of accountability within the health sector management of the province, in which diseases like Pneumonia and Diarrhea needs to be highlighted to bring the