not compromised at any stage of the research process. While the research was being designed, consultations were constantly held with all stakeholders in order to meet their needs and to refine scope of the research. There was continuous liaison with UNICEF team to ensure requirements were matched. Prior to the departure of field teams, all logistics and support were checked to ensure that the teams faced no resource constraint during data collection. The field activity was constantly monitored through telephonic calls on daily basis. During monitoring visits, field teams were observed during interviewing process, and feedback was provided to them on their performance. Research teams even conducted random spot checks, questionnaire completion reviews and data verifications to check the efficiency of the data collection. During the report writing phase, feedback was also taken from team along with other stakeholders and their comments were taken into consideration. During the report writing phase, findings were shared with UNICEF PMER Unit, officials from MNCH program, Child survival group members paediatricians, healthcare commission, PPA, FPAP, WHO and other development partners through presentations and discussions. The aim of such sessions was to understand their point of view and incorporate their feedback while interpreting the field data. The report was internally peer reviewed by Contech Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 46 Technical Review Committee comprising of senior experienced public health experts and was externally peer reviewed. It was also shared and reviewed by paediatricians, UNICEF team, other development partners and government officials. The feedback was incorporated after continuous rounds of consultative sessions. Ethical Considerations The study involved no clinical or preventive trial; hence there was no major ethical issue in this study. NOC was obtained from the Home Department before the fieldwork began in the districts. The field teams were already oriented on ethical issues during training sessions. A brief introduction of the research was provided to the respondents at the beginning of the session highlighting the benefits of their participation and any possible risks. Permission was formally sought from the respondents to participate in the research and informed consent forms were signed by them at the beginning of each interview session. Those who could not sign consent forms demonstrated their approval with a fingerprint, in the presence of the interviewer. The content of the consent form was read out to the respondents and their apprehensions were clarified. It was also specified that their participation was