of all the requirements, the drug in question is formerly accepted for registration. For the imported drugs, the registration process is essentially same accept for few additional requirements. The company has to meet following conditions before getting imported product registered in Pakistan for marketing, distribution and sales. It must have: a) Original and legalized GMP certificate of country of origin proving compliance OR b) Free Sale Certificate of drug from regulatory body of country of origin c) Sole Agency Agreement (SAA) with manufacturer of the imported drug for getting the product registered in Pakistan. d) Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (COPP) e) Approved prescribing Information (PI) f) Credentials/Site Master file g) Authentic Clinical Data/Clinical Trial h) Clinical justification i) Few samples of finished product If the manufacturer does not belong to any of the reference countries (e.g. China, Malaysia) but the drug molecule is already entered in the pharmacopeia, then DRAP’s TWO member Inspection team visits the manufacturer. However, if the manufacturer has already been inspected and approved by US FDA, then this step is exempted. 2-3 experts examine reports of these visits before putting the case in DRAP Board for approval. 69 5.2.2.1 Timeline for technical approval It used to take more time earlier due to loads of pending cases of the past, but the situation has improved. If the product’s molecule is already in the Pharmacopeia, then it takes up to one year for the whole process to get completed. However, in certain cases, such as medicines for the control of dengue, hepatitis C, cancer and thalassemia, the process is accelerated out of queue through ‘Expedited Review Process’ in the high public interest. The process can similarly be expedited for any new product (newly developed molecule or a formulation, such as Zinc in dispersible form), if needed on urgent basis in the public interest. But such cases must be strongly supported by authentic research studies, preferably local, to get Board’s approval. 5.2.2.2 Timeline for Pricing Process After the registration process is completed and registration letter is issued by the Authority, the file is sent for pricing to ADPC section, which evaluate the proposal on a set criteria and approves the rate accordingly. If approved, the file is referred to the Federal ministry for final notification. The Federal ministry after scrutiny forwards the case to the cabinet division for the approval of Federal Government. As per new ruling of Supreme