children due to lack of clean drinking water and lack of cleanliness.” Apart from the above-mentioned diseases, many parents stated that skin allergies and other seasonal infections caused severe health hazards. A parent from Punjab expressed that “The diseases which normally affects patients here are viral infections and skin allergies.” Another parent from Sindh added, “… fortunately there haven’t been any diseases of children under the age of five which have become the reason for his/her death.” However, a parent from Sindh had another perspective on deaths of children; he said “We have Diarrhea, Pneumonia and malaria due to mosquito bites. Deaths occur due to lack of food. Diarrhea occurs due to lack of cleanliness…” Hence, it was widely understood that malnutrition lead to deaths. Doctors, NGOs, LHWs and TV advertisements were considered main sources in spreading awareness about Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Most of the parents claimed that they had been entirely unaware of these diseases before being provided information by these sources. 4.2.8.1 Causes of Diseases Majority of parents seemed quite well informed about the causes of diseases. Most commonly mentioned causes of diseases by the parents were poor hygiene, lack of clean drinking, malnutrition and seasonal changes. According to parents, fixing these aspects would serve as appropriate preventive measures. 59 Poor Hygiene Conditions – All respondents stressed upon cleanliness and hygiene as a basic preventive measure in combating diseases. Most parents interviewed seemed to be without access to proper sanitation facilities. Many believed that a cleaner environment would result in a healthier community and that a lack of one was the biggest cause of diseases among children. Poor sanitation and dust were also associated with unhygienic conditions. Parents stressed on the importance of adopting healthy habits in order to ward off diseases. Many believed practicing and encouraging cleanliness was a key factor in the war against diseases. A parent from Punjab emphasized, “… through the use of healthy habits we can eradicate these diseases.” Some parents acknowledged the role of stakeholders like doctors, NGOs and TV commercials in creating awareness about benefits of maintaining cleanliness. Unavailability of Clean Drinking Water – Many people blamed lack of clean drinking water as the main contributor of diseases in the community. Awareness about importance of clean drinking water was prevalent among parents and they complained about its inaccessibility. Almost every parent was frustrated about the quality of water. A detailed response