improve nutritional status, if invested in IMNCI it costs up to six time less per child healthcare (WHO, 2017) 2.3.6 Punjab Health Sector Strategy (2012:2020) Punjab Health Sector Strategy was developed in 2012 by Government of Punjab with support of Punjab Health Sector Reforms Programmes (PHRSP). It is drafted with an ambient of improvement in coverage and utilization of quality essential health services, particularly in low performing districts of Punjab. Health sector strategy emphasized on child health under the RMNCH and Nutrition initiatives. 2.3.7 Sindh Health Sector Strategy (2012-2020) Considering the health situation of province and to prioritize the service delivery in an integrated manner, Sindh Health Sector Strategy was drafted. In order to improve Child health, strategic actions are proposed at broader level however, strategic action in relevance to Pneumonia and Diarrhea includes: Moreover, overall system actions required for enhanced child healthcare and to reduce mortality and morbidity are part of strategy (Zaidi, 2012). “Capacity building of staff also emphasizing on Pneumonia and Diarrhea related training of healthcare workers” 2.3.8 Essential Medicine List of Punjab, 2016 Essential Medicine List of Punjab (GoP, 2016) is adaptation from 19th WHO recommended essential medicines List. It aligns with the WHO and UNICEF recommended Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities including, low osmolarity ORS, Amoxcillin (solid dosage form) and Zinc Sulphate (Solid Dosage form) for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (List of Essential Medicines, 2016). 2.3.9 Essential Medicine List of Sindh, 2014 Essential Medicine List of Sindh (2014), is again an adaptation of 19th WHO recommended Essential Medicines 15 List and National Essential Medicine List of 2013. It includes, Diarrhea and Pneumonia commodities (lowOsmolarity ORS, 20 mg dispersible tablet of Zinc Sulphate and recommended by WHO and UNICEF, among which low osmolarity ORS and 20 mg dispersible tablet of Zinc Sulphate meets the global guidelines. 2.4 MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR PNEUMONIA AND DIARRHEA 2.4.1 Improved Care Seeking and Referral Early recognition of Pneumonia and Diarrhea signs and symptoms and rapid care seeking, ensures that children approach to a healthcare provider, who can assess and treat them according to WHO and UNICEF recommended IMNCI and iCCM guidelines in facility and community settings (UNICEF, 2015). It is reported by UNICEF in year 2015, that proportion of children seeking care from healthcare provider for symptoms of Pneumonia has increased globally, but the pace is slow as over the past 15 years the rate of care seeking increased by only 8 percentage