sector can promote innovation in the supply and delivery of key interventions, in partnership with public institutions. – Government leaders can expand public awareness of the problem and its solutions, thereby increasing demand for services to reduce deaths from diarrhoea. – Global partnerships and networks can forge new links across initiatives, leading to strong and eﬀective advocacy and reducing the risk of competing activities. BOX 11 Innovation in delivery strategies New and creative delivery strategies are needed to improve the uptake and effectiveness of key diarrhoeal disease control interventions. Some possible solutions being developed: PRODUCTS NEED TO BE MADE MORE ATTRACTIVE TO USERS. Flavoured ORS would increase acceptability among children who may refuse treatment due to poor taste. Such ﬂavouring has not been recommended previously due to concerns of overconsumption leading to potentially harmful side effects. However, the new ORS formula largely eliminates this risk. A challenge remains to establish which ﬂavouring agents provide acceptable taste and are safe. Another case in point: More than 95 per cent of mothers in the developing world with children under ﬁve have some sort of soap product in their homes, yet use of soap for handwashing does not approach that percentage.44 Communication strategies are needed on an ongoing basis to encourage the use of soap to prevent diarrhoea transmission. PRODUCTS NEED TO BE PACKAGED FOR MORE EFFECTIVE USE. Since 1978, ORS packets have been available to most countries in only one size (a one-litre packet). Consequently, caregivers often adapt preparation instructions to avoid discarding leftover salts, since the one-litre packet may be more than needed. This tends to result in solutions of unknown concentrations that could be either ineffective or potentially dangerous. Smaller packet sizes are needed so that caregivers can more effectively treat their children’s diarrhoea at home. PRODUCTS NEED TO BE DELIVERED IN INNOVATIVE WAYS THAT MAXIMIZE ACCESS. ORS packets and zinc could reach more children in need if packaged together in diarrhoea treatment kits, which could be delivered by community health workers, or directly to households through campaigns or Child Health Days. Pregnant women could also receive such kits during antenatal care visits. In terms of promoting sanitation and hygiene, schools are an important training ground; schoolchildren, in turn, often inﬂuence such practices at home. Household water treatment has also become more mainstream in recent years, allowing more households to increase their access to safe drinking water. Finally, market-based solutions