the above objectives consultants will submit their proposal to UNICEF for approval and final selection as per criteria. This analysis will also serve as basis for developing a joint accountability framework to define role and responsibilities of key implementing actors. Background: Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 203 Pakistan has the third highest burden of maternal, fetal, and child mortality in the world1. As of 2010, the mortality rate of children under five (U5) is 89 deaths per 1,000 live births, with 1 in every 11 Pakistani child not surviving to their fifth birthday.2 Acute respiratory infections (ARIs), malaria, and dehydration caused by severe diarrhea are major causes of childhood mortality in Pakistan; each year, approximately 91,000 children die from pneumonia and 53,300 children die from diarrhea. In total, diarrhea, pneumonia, and malaria collectively contribute to around half of all child deaths3. A low proportion of children are receiving appropriate treatment: only 38% of children suffering from diarrhea are appropriately treated with Oral Rehydration Solution (ORS) and only 1.5% receives zinc appropriately; only half of children suffering from pneumonia receive an appropriate antibiotic. One in nine children suffering from diarrhea receives no treatment, and 59% receive no treatment for pneumonia2. While preventing these illnesses altogether is ideal, it is critical to treat them correctly and in a timely manner. This situation requires a focus on the revision of high-level policies, strengthening the training and knowledge of the health care providers, supporting production and procurement of relevant commodities, and improving the supply and logistics systems to track commodity stock and utilization. Object of the Baseline and Landscape Analysis: UNICEF and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation established a partnership, to contribute to increased child survival in Pakistan, through improving the diagnosis and treatment of pneumonia and diarrhoea in children under 5 years of age. The Project “Accelerating policy change, translation and implementation for pneumonia and diarrhoea commodities in Pakistan”, is to be implemented in close coordination with the Government of Pakistan and relevant stakeholders to ensure sustainable changes. It has an overarching goal to ensure that relevant national policies are revised, understood, and adhered to in order to ensure quality treatment and availability of the essential commodities for improving management of childhood diarrhea and pneumonia and increasing child survival by the end of 2019. The project also focuses on incorporating pneumonia and diarrhoea management commodities into essential medicine lists, advocate for increased resource