through the training and deployment of additional lady health workers combined with the continuation and intensification of community mobilization activities to leverage greater results for child survival. Finding: There is evidence to support the need for structured and regular trainings on management of P&D to enhance proper utilization of updated commodities. In Sindh, total of 9,742 doctors were trained on use of updated commodities and 8,102 were also oriented on the use of revised DHIS tools for recording and reporting of information. Total of 22,700 LHWs were covered in these trainings from all 29 districts, covering ~100% of LHWs strength of Sindh province. In Punjab, in addition to doctors, LHWs and LHSs, Lady Health Visitors were also trained on use of updated commodities and MIS. Most participants agreed and were aware that IMNCI guidelines have been updated but there were mixed opinion on the adequacy of the trainings conducted for it. A federal participant shared, “There has been some orientation on EML, MSDP and IMNCI guidelines.” The in-service IMNCI six-day abridged course was perceived as a positive step by the policy makers. “The IMNCI guidelines were updated last year, finalized and approved by MOH. The IMNCI course has now been reduced from 11 days to 6 days, which has made it more effective.” Most participants were not aware of the pre-service and community IMNCI components which have also been drafted and endorsed by the WHO and awaiting finalization. Nearly half of Medical Officers in the selected facilities had successfully received trainings in ARI, while only twenty percent of them confirmed trainings on IMNCI and breastfeeding. Around fifty percent of Women Medical Officers in the selected facilities had received trainings on ARI and micronutrient deficiency while a small percentage (25 percent) reported to have received trainings on IMCI. Less than fifteen percent of health technicians in the selected facilities had been trained on IMCI at the time of evaluation. Majority of the stakeholders at the district and community levels complained of lack of trainings and refresher trainings. At the same time, they also showed willingness to participate and keenness to learn from these trainings. GPs didn’t undermine their credibility as medical specialists but wanted their knowledge to be updated through trainings. Being from the private sector, most GPs felt being left out. Thus they wanted to be involved in the training provided by donors or/and the EQ: Whether the healthcare provider