tracking product losses and other adjustments? 1 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y 14 a. Are there significant losses and adjustments? The government system has the provision of damage and adjustment but number of reports of damaged and losses were not reported apparently to avoid the investigations. Due to less reporting the system has limitations to improve in such situations 15 How does each level of the system calculate resupply quantities? The District Level: The district implements the consumption based method of forecasting. The order level depends on the demand of health facilities and availability of budget. Service delivery Level: The resupply quantities are calculated consumption based methodology (not consideration of all the WHO recommendations) The health facilities with PPP receive the medicines in 2 to 3 days while the government health facilities when required collect the medicines (depending upon the availability of medicines) from district. 16 Have stock outs occurred for any product in the last 12 months at the following levels: Details of the stock out status have been mentioned in below table. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 108 Indicators LSAT Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs 17 a. Which products stock out most frequently? How long, and causes? The situation of the stock out has been shared in detail in the following table. 18 How did the stock outs affect program services and performance (specify which products and levels)? The medicines under consideration (Amoxicillin suspension, ORS, Zinc syrup) are the first line therapy of Diarrhea and Pneumonia. The Stock outs of these medicines were directly affecting the treatment protocols of the diarrhea and pneumonia of children under five years. 19 19. Are there established procedures for placing emergency orders? Yes No Comments: 1 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y In the health facilities with DDO powers or under the supervision of PPP, the emergency order can be handled effectively (in government health facilities through LP and PPP with immediate supplies). The LP has limited budget. The medicines issued to the health facility in response to the emergency order, are placed to the districts.