would like to express our gratitude to UNICEF’s Research and Evaluation Unit for their unstinted support and invaluable feedback during the process of this landscape analysis. We hope that the study findings and the frameworks hence developed will make a valuable contribution in improving child survival in Pakistan. Landscape Analysis for Policy Translation and Commodity Access in Pakistan iv Executive Summary This report presents the findings of a landscape analysis on pneumonia and diarrhea among children of Pakistan, which have long been regarded as diseases of poverty, closely related to living conditions with poor hygiene and sanitation, malnutrition as well as limited access to other basic necessities. Hence there is a dire need to move beyond obvious medical concerns at micro level, to a more complex macro level strategy focusing on economic, social and political issues. The Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) has ranked Pakistan as third highest with the score of 46 ( UN Inter-agency Group for Child Mortality Estimation, 2015). UNICEF and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) established a partnership to contribute to increased child survival in Pakistan, through improving prevention, diagnosis and treatment of pneumonia and diarrhoea in children underfive years of age. The Project “Accelerating Policy Change, Translation and Implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea Commodities in Pakistan”, is being implemented in close coordination with the Government of Pakistan and relevant stakeholders to ensure sustainable changes. The overarching project objective is to improve management of childhood diarrhoea and pneumonia and increase child survival by the end of 2019. This has to be done through ensuring that the relevant national policies are revised, understood and adhered to in order to guarantee quality treatment and availability of essential commodities. These commodities include Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, Low osmolarity ORS (LoORS), ARI timers, Pulse Oximeters and Oxygen. Landscape Analysis for Policy Translation and Commodity Access in Pakistan v The goal of this baseline Landscape Analysis study was to provide insight on barriers and facilitators to policy translation and commodity access in the public and private sectors at national and provincial level. Specific objectives were to: • Identify gaps in existing policies relevant to Child Survival Strategies in the context of GAPPD • Assess the prescribing behaviours and treatment approaches among public and private sector service providers and the LHW program • Recommend steps for inclusion of pneumonia and diarrhea commodities into