Health services at both Federal and provincial levels is very crucial in a number of ways. The country and provincial level leadership of development partners like WHO and UNICEF must use their influence to generate necessary efforts required from stakeholders. Furthermore, their role becomes highly important in keeping the project on track and aligned with the objectives. 2. A culture of accountability and transparency is actively promoted as a shared value and is demonstrated through clear articulation and consistent application of rules and regulations, policies and procedures including ethical values and standards of conduct. Main role has to be played by the government and development partners like UNICEF and WHO through platform of Child Survival Groups. It is very important that CSGs meets on regular basis for assessment of progress. CSGs must make sure that progress data is being shared frequently and there is an environment for problem solving and collaborative participation. Further, meetings are assessed on strong scoring criteria. 3. The most critical part of this process is level of communication between different stakeholders. It is of high importance that CSGs serves as a potent platform, where stakeholders can discuss matters related to implementation in a conducive environment. Outcomes heavily rely on synergistic efforts of the different stakeholders. Therefore, a two-way communication mechanism is critically important for achieving the milestones. CSG must develop an efficient complaints and response system. 4. Priorities are communicated clearly, and work plans and activities are aligned to achieve agreed-upon results. It is highly important that the work plan is shared with all the key stakeholders with clear responsibilities, timelines and clearly defined indicators of change. Performance objectives are cascaded down through different levels and are reflected in the context of overall objectives. 5. Risks to achieving results and objectives are identified, assessed and used to inform decision-making, to allow for development of mitigation plans and actions, and to ensure that policies, procedures and internal controls are relevant and effective. 97 6.3.2 Final Outcome 2: Clinical Management Practices Reflect Global Recommendations Outcomes (Strategic Objectives) Activities Primarily Responsible Supporting Partner Indicators Federal Level Training programs are in place for the healthcare providers at the Federal level Conduct IMNCI Trainings at the hospitals under federal ambit MNHSRC CSG Number of healthcare providers trained on IMNCI Punjab Level Training programs are in place at different levels for the treatment of pneumonia and diarrhea Include Emphasis on pneumonia and