the project had a clear analysis and expression of why, what, how and who needs to be involved and engaged to achieve policy change. Political will and commitment were evident from the stress drawn on childhood illnesses in Pakistan’s National Health Vision as well as provincial health policies and sector strategies. Willingness of government institutions, federal and provincial, was evident from their ownership and buy-in of project interventions. Decentralization of health sector has created dichotomies among federal level and provinces. The project attempted to bridge this gap by supporting certain platforms to build a shared vision. Support to provincial Health Departments was provided in implementation of joint accountability framework through CSG and TWG. Both the CSG in Punjab and TWG in Sindh had representation of all relevant stakeholders. Under policy change, the receptivity of policy makers and planners was demonstrated through updating of government documents (MSDP/EPHS, Essential Medicines Lists, Provincial Procurements Lists) to include the updated commodities for management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Moving to the next stage of policy translation, the project first built credible evidence on the effectiveness of updated commodities. Healthcare providers, at both the health facilities and within communities, acknowledged the use of updated commodities for effective management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Inclusion of updated commodities in key government documents (MSDP/EPHS, Essential medicines list, provincial procurement lists) showed government financial commitment, whereas, the governments are already procuring alternatives to updated commodities. A key intervention for policy translation was the support to federal and provincial governments for updating IMNCI guidelines while catering to the challenges of old curriculum and training duration. However, there were still gaps in allocation of resources for conducting the trainings across the board as the district managers explained the lack of resources for conducting IMNCI trainings. Under policy implementation, the evaluation revealed that the diagnosis and treatment had improved through use of Pulse Oximeter and Oxygen at the health facilities, and ARI Timers by the LHWs. Ownership of the project interventions was built through strengthening the existing service delivery systems by improving management practices of healthcare Lessons Learnt – Policy Change Outcome • Political will and commitment is essential for policy transformation and rolling out reforms agenda in Pakistan. • Joint accountability framework assisted the project in steering the progress monitoring and tracking. • Establishing oversight and coordination platforms at all levels are critical in building government ownership and steering the