‘As you know Pneumonia and Diarrhea are common causes of deaths among children under age 5. We are conducting a study to learn about of services being provided LHWs and LHSs to prevent and control these diseases among children and would like to know your views in this regards. We will start when you are ready, will listen to your view points and ask few questions to clarify some of the things you would talk about.’ May we begin? The guideline contains multiple questions and each question is followed by a set of probes. Please let participants initiate the discussion and use probes only when certain concerns are not addressed by the group. Disease burden or cases of pneumonia and diarrhea 1. I’d like to ask you a little bit about your own perceptions about estimated number of cases of pneumonia and diarrhea. Probes: i. Average cases of pneumonia and diarrhea LHWs dealt daily/weekly/monthly. ii. Do you get sufficient time to deal with pneumonia & diarrhea cases, in addition to your other responsibilities? Trainings and skills to handle pneumonia and diarrhea 2. Do you have sufficient knowledge & skill to handle cases of pneumonia and diarrhea? Probes: i. Have you received induction & on job trainings (e.g. IMCI) regarding pneumonia and diarrhea? ii. How much time has passed since you received last training/refresher? iii. Did you find trainings and refreshers useful? If notwhy not? Any suggestion? Availability of treatment protocols/guidelines 3. Do you have WHO treatment and referral guideline for pneumonia and diarrhea in the form charts, posters or booklets? Probe: Midterm Evaluation Report 111 i. Did you receive any audio-visual and pictorial material related to pneumonia and diarrhea? ii. Do you use these materials for awareness raising of the community, especially mothers of children under 5 years? Availability of sufficient supplies for management of pneumonia and diarrhea 4. Do you have sufficient medicines and supplies for management of pneumonia and diarrhea? Probe: i. E.g. amoxicillin, antipyretic, zinc, LORS, ARI timer, thermometer, dispersible tablets Case management of pneumonia and diarrhea 5. How comfortable do you feel in handling a case of pneumonia or diarrhea at your health house or during home visits? Probe: i. Can you detect danger signs for referral? ii. Did you receive any training to detect danger signs of pneumonia and diarrhea? iii. Do you know how to classify pneumonia and diarrhea by using WHO guidelines? How