into printing. It was reported that new draft of DHIS, includes indicators about availability of Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT and Low osmolarity ORS in the in the stock available at the facility. It also has a provision of entering OPD data for diarrhea and dysentery separately for under 5 children (previously there was provision for entry of combined data only). Moreover, an age slot has been added to differentiate data of neonatal deaths from infant and U5 deaths. Managers told that the drafts of DHIS tools and procedures manual of Sindh, shall only be finalized after incorporating feedback of trainees participating in TOTs. They expressed their hope that the material shall be printed by the end of this year, with support of UNICEF. It was informed that all the GAPPD recommendations have been included in the updated DHIS. Furthermore, it was told that master trainers will be trained which will train medics and paramedics on the use of these tools. It was hoped that these trainings will help a lot to change the prescribing behavior of the healthcare providers in the public sector. Flow of Information Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 59 The managers shared the flow of data where they said that the DHIS data is compiled at the district level to be transmitted to the provincial headquarters. On the other hand, the vertical programs have their own streams of data, which are compiled at the district level and then the data takes the form of Provincial MIS. This information is later shared with the main stakeholders. As a representative of program told: “This communication starts at the district level and is compiled in our office before sharing it with P&D section of health secretariat from where it is transmitted to P&D Board and ultimately reaches at federal level and information travels vice versa in similar way.” Validity and Reliability of Data Almost managers at every level of the system stressed the need of a reliable information system for effective decision-making. A leading paediatrician noted: “We don’t have reliable statistics on pneumonia and diarrhea and so it becomes very difficult to respond to these diseases at systems level. You have to have figures to make and build a response; that is the prime job of the governance structure” Provincial experts expressed serious reservations regarding the validity and reliability of data in the DHIS and MIS of LHWs. According to