in the project. Policy Change Willingness of federal and provincial government institutions is evident from their concurrence on project interventions. The project is supporting provincial health departments in implementation of joint accountability framework through CSG/TWG. Relevance Continuance of government support for health system strengthening and policy implementation Sharing MTE results with stakeholders with special focus on role of CSG/TWG Short term + UNICEF Project Management Team Federal and Provincial Governments 4. Effectiveness of the promoted methods and commodities are well acknowledged at the local level. Policy Translation Healthcare providers and outreach workers at local levels acknowledged the use of updated commodities for effective management. Effectiveness Enhancing private sector engagement for updating their prescribing behaviours Active involvement of professional associations in advocacy for private practitioners Medium term ++ Professional Associations UNICEF Project Management Team On the contrary, private sector providers lacked familiarity with the updated commodities due to their limited engagement in the project activities. Continued capacity building program for service providers from both public and private providers Long term +++ UNICEF Project Management Team Professional Associations 5. All stakeholders recognize improved diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea as a shared Knowledge Management Updated federal and provincial policies and guidelines reflect the recognition of improved management as a shared goal Sustainability Translation of lessons learnt (scale up and replication) to other geographical settings Evidence-based policy advocacy enhancement of geographic coverage of the interventions Rolling-out IMNCI in target provinces and advocacy for Long term ++ M/o NHSR&C and Health Departments UNICEF Project Management Team Midterm Evaluation Report 126 Assumption Link with Project Outcomes Findings of MTE based on DAC Criteria DAC Linkage Recommendation Proposed Action Timeline Priority Prime Responsibility Supporting Role goal. replication in other provinces and regions of Pakistan 6. Policy makers, health institutions and pharmaceutica l industry are as receptive to new ideas and demands. Policy Change Evident receptivity of policy makers, health institutions from updated government documents (MSDP/EPHS, Essential medicines list, provincial procurement lists) Relevance & Effectiveness Continued advocacy with pharmaceutical manufacturers for local production Engaging with private pharma and distribution networks by sharing areas of opportunities and informing them about benefits of treatment Building stronger collaborations with DRAP and private sector Short term ++ UNICEF Project Management Team Pharma industry and DRAP Limited interest of pharmaceutical manufacturers in local production Direct Demand Creation: Convincing provincial health authorities to include updated commodities in provincial procurement lists Medium term