focus on these critical childhood illnesses. However, respondents at community level discussed many areas for improvement. Mothers/care givers had an obvious preference for syrup over DT. There were also mothers who were not familiar with DTs. On the contrary, ORS sachets were popular with the mothers and vouched to their efficacy in treating Diarrhea. However, most couldn’t differentiate between Lo-ORS and regular ORS and shared that they used whichever sachet was provided by the LHWs. Mothers held LHWs in high regard in relation to treating these childhood illnesses and believed that they played a critical role in addressing health needs of the community. LHWs were quite satisfied with the introduction of new commodities and their effectiveness in treating these diseases. Majority was also pleased with their supplies, both with quantity and regularity. LHWs in Punjab were quite satisfied with the new delivery system of supplies, which were either delivered at their health houses or at the facilities with their names. This supply chain didn’t find favour with a few DHOs who believed that the delivery should take place through them for better monitoring. LHWs wanted more training and refreshers, especially with regards to using ARI timers. Most of them apparently considered it useful tool in diagnosing Diarrhea but were not much familiar with its usage. The ones who were aware how to use them, complained of them being out of order and not being replaced. GPs were mostly indifferent towards the new commodities as they were unaware of them; some did not even know what DTs were. Majority was unsure about the availability of Lo ORS. Due to this they felt being excluded from the health system and showed keenness in trainings and in learning about the new commodities. Similarly, pharmacy in-charges were of the opinion that they did not get prescription of DTs and Lo ORS so they didn’t keep them in stock due to no demand. Very few facility in-charges mentioned stock-outs; majority was satisfied with the supplies as well as with the effectiveness of the new commodities. Most facility in-charges believed that with DTs, dosage is more accurate. LoORS was particularly popular with facilities in both provinces. Prescribing co-packaging of zinc DT and Lo ORS was still a common practice in Punjab. In spite of admitting the efficacy of DTs, quite a few facility in-charges revealed that they did not prescribe DTs as syrup was more popular