mild, acute cases can lead to signiﬁcant ﬂuid loss and dehydration, which may result in death or other severe consequences if ﬂuids are not replaced at the ﬁrst sign of diarrhoea. Diarrhoea is a leading cause of death during complex emergencies and natural disasters. Displacement of populations into temporary, overcrowded shelters is often associated with polluted water sources, inadequate sanitation, poor hygiene practices, contaminated food and malnutrition – all of which affect the spread and severity of diarrhoea. At the same time, the lack of adequate health services and transport reduces the likelihood of prompt and appropriate treatment of diarrhoea cases. In 1994, between 500,000 and 800,000 Rwandan refugees ﬂooded into areas around Goma in what is now the Democratic Republic of the Congo. An estimated 50,000 deaths occurred in the ﬁrst month alone, with 85 per cent of them attributed to diarrhoea. The scarcity of water was cited as the main cause for the outbreak. Malnutrition is also common in emergencies and tends to be heightened when feeding practices are disrupted and sanitation deteriorates. Diarrhoea control is a main concern when responding to complex emergencies, such as the one in Goma. Priority interventions include providing safe water in adequate quantities, setting up appropriate sanitation facilities, establishing health services to rapidly detect and treat cases, and promoting good hygiene. In recent years, progress has been made in implementing communitybased interventions when responding to emergencies, such as promoting exclusive breastfeeding, micronutrient supplementation, point-of-use water treatment, handwashing with soap, and treating cases with oral rehydration salts or appropriate homemade ﬂuids. Sources: Goma Epidemiology Group, ‘Public Health Impact of the Rwandan Refugee Crisis: What happened in Goma, Zaire, in July 1994’, The Lancet, vol. 345, no. 8964, 1995, pp. 339-344. In humanitarian crises, diarrhoea is a major cause of death HIV-positive patients (Box 2). Though cholera is often thought of as a major cause of child deaths due to diarrhoea, most cases occur among adults and older children. How are diarrhoea pathogens transmitted? Most pathogens that cause diarrhoea share a similar mode of transmission – from the stool of one person to the mouth of another. This is known as faecal-oral transmission. There may be diﬀerences, however, in the number of organisms needed to cause clinical illness, or in the route the pathogen takes while travelling between individuals (for example, from the stool to food or water, which is then ingested). Diarrhoea is