examples came out of the PAIMAN project and introduction of Chlorhexidine in Pakistan. Moreover, an overwhelming number of managers urged the need of cogent arguments for the use of updated commodities. Specially, the replacement of suspension with the dispersible tablets needed to be supported with robust arguments. The role of pharmaceutical pressure was specially mentioned. It was pointed out that once the local pharmaceutical manufacturers start producing the dispersible tablets, it would create a positive pressure on the public and private sector. There was no evidence based drug quantification and forecasting system found in Punjab. However, Sindh has recently developed and implemented an evidence-based system that generates the demand on need. This system has the ability to quantify the demand of the individual medicines at each and every facility. This system has the ability to estimate the cost of the medicine either on the basis of the caseload or on the prevalence basis as well. However, it was not clear whether the districts were procuring the medicines according to these cost estimation tools. Some managers urged the need of a decentralized procurement to meet the needs of medicine at the district level. Furthermore, it was shared that the USAID is running a program called USP-PQM (Promoting the quality of medicines). This program provides technical assistance to strengthen medicines regulatory capacity and quality assurance systems in developing countries. PQM also supports the manufacture of quality-assured priority medicines for malaria; HIV/AIDS; tuberculosis; neglected tropical diseases; and maternal, newborn, and child health (MNCH). PQM’s third result area is the utilization of information on medical products for decision-making. A notable pharmaceutical expert suggested a consultation with the PQM. 4.1.4.1 Updating Essential Medicine List Essential medicine lists are made to ensure the availability of critical and important medicines in the public health facilities. Managers from Sindh told that the updated commodities have already been made part of the revised EML. However, the managers of Punjab stated that these commodities are not part of the provincial EML. This is because stakeholders need to be convinced about the effectiveness of the updated commodities especially, the benefits of the dispersible tablets. A provincial manager in the Punjab government noted: “We will have to test the acceptability of these tablets in the community.” 37 A senior official in the Punjab government clearly stated that updation of new commodities in EML would not be difficult if concerned program (IRMNCH) recommends