talk to break the ice. You can begin by saying these words to the group of participants: ‘As you know Pneumonia and Diarrhea are common causes of deaths among children under age 5. We are conducting a study to learn about quality and converge of services by LHWs to prevent and control these diseases among children and would like to know your honest views in this regards. We will start when you are ready, will listen to your view points and ask few questions to clarify some of the things you would talk about.’ May we begin? The guideline contains 14 questions and each question is followed by a set of probes. Please let participants initiate the discussion and use probes only when certain concerns are not addressed by the group. 157 ACCESSIBILITY AND CATCHMENT AREA 1. First I’d like to know about your catchment area. What is the estimated range of houses you register and serve and how you manage to reach to each client? Probes: i. How many of you reside in this catchment area? ii. Those of you who don’t live here, how do you manage to access/travel to allotted catchment area; especially to houses located at far away distance? iii. Has any additional catchment area been allotted to increase coverage? DISEASE BURDEN OR CASES OF PNEUMONIA AND DIARRHEA 2. I’d like to ask you a little bit about your own perceptions about estimated number of cases of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Probes: i. Average cases of Pneumonia and Diarrhea LHWs dealt daily/weekly/monthly. ii. If get sufficient time to deal with Pneumonia & Diarrhea cases, in addition to their other responsibilities 11. ANNEX 158 TRAININGS AND SKILLS TO HANDLE PNEUMONIA AND DIARRHEA 3. Do you have sufficient knowledge & skill to handle cases of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Probes: i. Have you received induction & on job trainings regarding Pneumonia and Diarrhea? ii. How much time that has passed since received last training/refresher? iii. Did you find trainings and refreshers useful? If notwhy not? Any suggestion? AVAILABILITY OF TREATMENT PROTOCOLS/GUIDELINES 4. Do you have WHO treatment and referral guideline for Pneumonia and Diarrhea in the form charts, posters or booklets? Probe: i. Did you receive any audiovisual material related to Pneumonia and Diarrhea? AVAILABILITY OF SUFFICIENT SUPPLIES FOR MANAGEMENT OF PNEUMONIA AND DIARRHEA 5. Do you have sufficient medicines and supplies for management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Probe: i.