(MNHSR&C, 2015). National Health Vision 2016-2025 With the eighteenth amendment to the constitution of Pakistan , the subject of health was devolved to the provinces. Resultantly, the provinces developed their own health sector strategies and a National Health Vision was developed at the national level National Health Vision 2016-2025, is a key to achieve Universal Health Coverage (UHC),” said Federal Minister for MNHSR&C. Aligned with country’s vision 2025, National Health Vision was published in 2016. Overarching principles of vision are transformation and change, equity, and resilience and accountability. These are further translated into key policy directions, such as vigilant use of existing funds, investing for social protection, performance accountability of government services, coordinated production of key targets with the private sector, regulation, producing human resources for rural health markets, and standardized, quality services commencing from the primary health sector (Planning Commission, 2015). It can therefore, be elaborated that health vision has holistic focus on system strengthening. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 18 Pakistan National Drug Policy National Drug Policy of Pakistan was drafted back in year 2000, with a purpose to ensure regular availability of essential drugs of acceptability efficacy, safety and quality at affordable prices to all irrespective of their socio-economic status or place of living. Though formation of drug policy is an integral component of national health policy, however since 2000 policy is not updated (Pharmacist Federation of Pakistan, n.d). Pakistan’s Approach to Total Sanitation PATS According to PDHS (2013), in Pakistan almost half (59%) of households have an improved toilet facility. GAPPD recommends improved sanitation facility to prevent diarrhea and pneumonia (WHO & UNICEF, 2013), therefore, significance of sanitation policy at national and provincial level cannot be ignored. Pakistan published its National Sanitation Policy in 2006; it provides guidelines and support to the federal, provincial and local governments and other developing authorities (Ministry of Environment, 2006). Pakistan Approach to Total Sanitation (PATS) is for achieving and sustaining an open defecation free environment both in rural and urban areas, with emphasize on behavior change and social mobilization for enhancing the demand side of sanitation (Ministry of Environment, 2011). In Punjab and Sindh, UNICEF is supporting Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) program in their activities, and aims to end open defecation in 3,600 villages of Punjab and 13 districts of Sindh by 2018 (UNICEF, 2015). Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 19 National Essential Medicine List 2016 According to WHO