are located in Lahore, while Branch Office & a manufacturing plant at Nowshera. It is an organization, with two cGMP compliant manufacturing facilities (one for solid/liquid dosage and one for biological drugs production) and has a distribution network across Pakistan. They believe in putting patients first, and therefore has a motto, “Our purpose for existence and ultimate measure of success is our impact on the improvement of human lives.” Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 142 Ferozsons possesses leadership brands in the areas of gastroenterology, hepatology, cardiology, Urology and oncology and is maintaining exclusive agreements with a number of international partners for distribution, selling and co-manufacturing of products in Pakistan including the Bagó Group of Argentina, Bio Gaia of Sweden, Boston Scientific Corporation, GE Healthcare and Gilead Sciences, Inc. of the USA. The company has employee strength of over 1000. It has a large export market, including; Afghanistan, Cambodia, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Myanmar, Nepal, Nigeria, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Uganda, Uzbekistan and Vietnam. Company’s product & sale volume and production status of Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities is given below. Table 5: Profile of FEROZSONS Laboratories and Pharmaceuticals Product Volume 100+ Sale Volume (annual) 10 billion Pneumonia & Diarrhea Commodities Zinxus (Zinc Sulphate); Syrup, DT Ferolyte (Low osmorality ORS) Contact detail Head office / Biotech factory: 5 KM Sundar Raiwind Road, Raiwind, Lahore Phone: +92(42)36026700; Fax:+92(42)36026702 Email: info@ferozsons.labs.com Branch Office & Plant: P.O. Ferozsons, Amangarh-Nowshera (KP) ATCO Laboratories and Pharmaceuticals ATCO Laboratories Limited, an ISO-QMS 9001 certified pharmaceutical company, was founded in 1978. The company is located in Karachi and manufactures a wide range of finished pharmaceuticals and bio-pharmaceutical products on its State-of-the-Art cGMP compliant facility. It produces tablets, capsules, oral liquids and semi-solid dosage Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 143 forms and feels responsible to, “Delight the customers; the patient, prescribers and partners and meet their needs satisfactorily on a long–term horizon.” ATCO Laboratories has employee strength of over 700 and has a large export market, mainly spread over African and Central Asian countries and include Uganda, Kenya, Sudan, Nigeria, Senegal, Rwanda , Sri Lanka, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Vietnam Turkmenistan, Laos, Myanmar, Tanzania and Afghanistan. It is manufacturing Zinc syrup for past many years and is ready to start manufacturing Zinc DT. The clinical trial for Zinc DT is under process. It is already manufacturing and marketing Low Osmolarity ORS. Company’s product & sale volume and production status of Pneumonia and