been divided into two departments that is Primary and Secondary Healthcare Department (P&SHD) and Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Department. P&SHD is responsible for vertical programs and health facilities including DHQ, THQ, RHC hospitals, BHUs and dispensaries. In principal for the procurement of selected essential medicines for the districts DGHS strictly followed the PPRA rules. District Government Punjab authorized the concern Health Department for the procurement of the selected medicines for DHQ, THQ, RHC and BHUs in Punjab and Additional Director Health Services (MS&DC) submitted their demand to DGHS which then advertised the invitation for bids in the Newspaper. DGHS on receiving the prequalification documents select analyze it and select the firm for bids. Than DGHS issued the notification of award/advance acceptance of tender (AAT) and subsequently contract and purchase order against the finalized rates by Health Department after the receipt of performance security in the form of an irrevocable bank guarantee. The upper limit of the ordered quantities should not exceed the demand submitted by DGHS and subsequently advertised in the bidding documents. On receiving the stock DGHS after confirmation of quantities and quality distribute the stocks in districts. The procedures strictly followed the PPRA rules; it is required to see in-depth situation analysis for the selection of medicines for the treatment of diseases, method of forecasting of demand and methodology of distribution of items. In districts purchase committee also exist which also follow the PPRA annex 1: Desk Review SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 69 rules for the purchase of medicines. The in-depth situation analysis is required to see the policies and regulations for the selection, procurement and distribution of essential medicines at provincial and district levels. Specialized healthcare and Medical education department has also launched web-based medicines inventory management software which is temporarily share with the hospitals for learning purposes and instruction has been given for the entry of the medicines of local purchase (LP) of each tertiary care hospital at Lahore. Software is of basic level having “Medicines Dashboard” which gives quick access to near expiry medicines. The “Medicines Management” field keeps the inventory record of the medicines batch and expiry wise. It also facilitates the hospitals for transfer of stock from one hospital to another. Health system of Pakistan provides care to children suffered from diarrhea and pneumonia also through Lady Health workers and Lady Health supervisors (LHS) programs. Even in presence of these