varied depending on which facility the respondent represented. Some facilities claimed they were well equipped to treat Pneumonia patients, and respondents even said they had the support of their designated higher-ups, stating that shortcomings were met with encouraging responses. A facility in-charge from Punjab supported this notion, “We don’t have any shortage of equipment or medicines at our facility. If there is any such lacking, we demand supply of such material from the relevant department and receive a positive response.” However, there were also respondents that reported negligence and disinterest on the part of higher authorities when it came to lack of equipment. This in turn led to the facilities being ill equipped and hence incompetent in dealing with Pneumonia and Diarrhea cases. A facility in-charge from Sindh complained, “In our health facility, there are no oxygen cylinders...” An in-charge from Punjab added, “Chest x-ray is essential for the diagnosis of Pneumonia. This facility is not available in our premises.” Ambulance services seemed to be dismal and lacking according to most of the responses. Many facilities didn’t have access to ambulances at all and the ones that did, faced problems with funding for usage and maintenance. A facility in-charge from Punjab highlighted poor management of ambulance service, “… for severe cases, we call 1122 for ambulance. We have issues of administration and management of ambulance as it now under 1122.” A facility in-charge from Sindh revealed, “We have an ambulance but, due to the shortage of fuel, it is on stand.” Almost all responses indicated that severe cases were referred to higher facilities due to lack of required expertise and inadequate equipment to deal with severe cases. 4.2.4 New Form of Medication Low osmolarity ORS seemed to be present in most health facilities with the in-charges having sound knowledge of how to administer it during the patient’s treatment. A facility in-charge from Sindh verified, “Low osmolarity ORS is better than regular ORS. Low osmolarity ORS has good quantity of sodium, potassium etc...” However, there were also such health facilities that did not have low osmolarity ORS, supposedly due to the high cost. A facility in-charge from Punjab emphasized its benefits and higher costs, “Low osmolarity ORS is more beneficial than regular ORS because absorption is better in low osmolarity and it is more isotonic as compared to regular ORS. However, Low osmolarity ORS is not provided at our facility… The