random spot checks, questionnaire completion reviews and data verifications to check the efficiency of the data collection. During the report writing phase, feedback was also taken from team along with other stakeholders and their comments were taken into consideration. During the report writing phase, findings were shared with UNICEF PMER Unit, officials from MNCH program, Child survival group members paediatricians, healthcare commission, PPA, FPAP, WHO and other development partners through presentations and discussions. The aim of such sessions was to understand their point of view and incorporate their feedback while interpreting the field data. The report was internally peer reviewed by Contech Technical Review Committee comprising of senior experienced public health experts and was externally peer reviewed. It was also shared and reviewed by paediatricians, UNICEF team, other development partners and government officials. The feedback was incorporated after continuous rounds of consultative sessions. 3.13 ETHICAL CONSIDERATIONS The study involved no clinical or preventive trial; hence there was no major ethical issue in this study. NOC was obtained from the Home Department before the fieldwork began in the districts. The field teams were already oriented on ethical issues during training sessions. A brief introduction of the research was provided to the respondents at the beginning of the session highlighting the benefits of their participation and any possible risks. Permission was formally sought from the respondents to participate in the research and informed consent forms were signed by them at the beginning of each interview session. Those who could not sign consent forms demonstrated their approval with a fingerprint, in the presence of the interviewer. The content of the consent form was read out to the respondents and their apprehensions were clarified. It was also specified that their participation was voluntary and they could refuse to answer any particular questions or even withdraw entirely from the session at any time, without any notice or obligation. Each session was audio recorded where permitted by the respondents, otherwise fieldnotes were taken by the interviewer. Data was collected in a manner that was comfortable for each participant, in which he/she was able to speak openly and honestly. As promised, their anonymity was maintained throughout the study, and personal identifiers were removed from the data. None of the researchers had any conflict of interest. Keeping privacy and confidentiality of the respondents in consideration, all hard and soft copies of the collected data was kept securely and