of LHWs to manage diarrhea and pneumonia in children at household level and for referral of complicated cases?  What is routine mechanism for in-service training and capacity building of LHWs in your district?  Is there any specific training for prevention and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea, like IMNCI or any other training?  If you don’t have in built mechanism of in-service training in your district, what else you do for this purpose? 6. What is the current status of availability of commodities and equipment for child health services, particularly diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea?  Are sufficient amount of antipyretics, antibiotics (particularly Amoxicillin), ORS and Zinc are provided to the LHWs?  In what formulation are these commodities usually provided? Probe for DT?  What are the common reasons for stock-outs of these commodities?  Are any specific equipment, like ARI timers, provided to the LHWs for better managing the cases of Pneumonia and Diarrhea?  In your opinion, how can the uninterrupted supply of these commodities be ensured for LHWs? 7. Can you throw some light on LHW-MIS?  What do you think about the sufficiency of LHW-MIS tools for recording and reporting regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea?  Do these reports provide adequate cover and indicate the shortage of commodities?  Have you made any decisions regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea on the basis of the reports generated at district level? Kindly give some examples.  How can the recording and reporting of LHWs’ services be improved? 8. What are your in built mechanisms for monitoring and supervision of LHWs?  What is the current supervision policy? At which level responsibility of supervision is fixed?  Is the supervision integrated or service specific e.g. for EPI, CMWs, LHWs, etc.?  What is the role of Lady Health Supervisor regarding supervision and ensuring uninterrupted supply of commodities for LHWs?  Is there any notified district schedule for supervisory visits to the community-based workers?  What are your suggestions to improve the monitoring and supervision of child health services in your district? 9. What do you think about the integration of the LHWs with other health programs, local community, key persons, Community Based Organizations (CBOs) or elected representatives?  What is the level integration of LHWs, LHS and CMWs in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children?  What role do they play