or encourages the access of patient for utilizing the services by improving the availability of medicines at HF. In Punjab, on the other hand, public awareness has also been created through TV and print media. Provincial details are as follows 4.2.2 Section II: Product Selection The product selection of medicines for procurement and availability at the service delivery site were based on the National Essential Medicines. All the products except Zinc solid oral dosage form selected for the procurement were from National Essential Medicines List, which was available on official website of DRAP. NEML, has been used for the development of provincial essential medicines list, and the list of medicines for central rate contract. The criteria for the selection of any product for essential medicines list, was WHO recommendations and disease burden. It has been observed that Zinc syrup was procured rather Zinc solid oral dosage form. The essential packages for health services were available for Punjab, Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The services included in EPHS were: Immunization, Antenatal , Natal and Postnatal care, Inter-natal care, prevention of STI and RTI, FP service, Major Micronutrient deficiencies, mental health, screening, outreach services for all levels of health facilities. The survey conducted, was primarily for assessment of Diarrhea and Pneumonia medicines which include ORS, Zinc supplementation, and Amoxicillin suspension which were part of essential medicines list for all the provinces. Diarrhea and Pneumonia are vaccine preventable diseases. Rota virus was the major contributor of deaths of children suffering from Diarrhea in Pakistan. In Punjab vaccine for Rota virus and Pneumonia were included in routine EPI while in Sindh Pneumonia vaccine is included in routine EPI. 4.2.3 Section III: Organization and Staffing Logistics Management Unit (LMU): According to WHO, LMU, is a management structure that can be used to organize, monitor and support all the activities within the logistics system. Through the lens of continuous improvement; LMU identifies the Supply Chain problems, develop solutions and implement those interventions. LMU is an important link between the different organizations, levels, and actors within the supply chain. LMU were available in all provinces. It was responsible for managing and using the logistics management information system, forecasting, procurement, inventory management and distribution. The selection of product was in consultation with the Districts. It was also responsible for the supervision and development of logistics staff. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 37 ■ Although, at the provincial level,