households covered by the LHWs to 1000 households from the current level of 1200-1500 households for every LHW. According to them this number of households was putting strain on the performance of LHWs and was affecting the efficiency of the LHWs in delivering the services. Managers noted that the human resource is available for recruitment and selection but the financial constraints limit their ability to hire more LHWs for the required coverage. LHW Program after 18th Amendment Most of the managers expressed their satisfaction on the pace of the LHW program after the 18th amendment to the constitution of Pakistan. Initially, after the eighteenth amendment that program faced some serious issues in budgeting, salaries, recruitment Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 64 and selection and other related matters. However most of these problems have been overcome and now program is running smoothly. The health managers expressed satisfaction on the performance of the program at the district level. They were of the view that due to the devolution of powers, the pace of implementation has increased and the districts have more autonomy for the implementation of the program. However, the managers uniformly voiced the concern of the negative political influence on the program. According to the managers interviewed in Punjab and Sindh, political influence has increased a lot and it is negatively impacting the program. All of them suggested the control of political influence. One of the managers complained, “Sometimes it becomes very difficult to make the LHWs accountable due to the political influence.” Guidelines for the LHW program According to the health managers in Punjab and Sindh, LHWs are provided guidelines by the National Program. These comprehensive guidelines are about prevention, treatment and follow up mechanism. These guidelines are pictorial and are in the form of cards like “Sehat Ki Dastak”. LHW's Coordination and Communication It was highlighted by the managers in the both the provinces that it is highly important that the program develops effective coordination mechanism with other stakeholders in the districts like the organizations to which health facilities have been outsourced, such as PPHI, IHS, HANDS, Indus, and Merlin, etc. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 65 Monitoring of LHWs It was found out that the LHWs are being monitored at two levels. The district administration and district health administration perform monitoring and supervisory visits. Secondly, LHS is also supposed to visit 20-25 LHWs on monthly basis. 3 days