for the new formulation, particularly Amoxicillin DT and packaging of ORS & Zinc supplementation consists of the following steps: Collection of reference material, preparing the desk review of impact analysis of Amoxicillin DT and ORS and Zinc co-packaging in other countries. 2. It also involves the consultation with Pharmaceutical Bureau, Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Association, Research & development of DRAP and other stakeholders, for preparation of comparative study of different formulation of the subjected medicines in Pakistan. The stakeholders include UNICEF, WHO, R & D of DRAP, Health Department of all Provinces, Pharmaceutical Bureau, Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Association of Pakistan, Pakistan Pharmacist Association, United State Pharmacopeia Pakistan and Nutrition International. 3. With consultation of PMA, selection of those pharmaceutical industries that are already registered with DRAP for manufacturing of Zinc DT and ORS for Co-packaging of ORS and Zinc supplementation. Amoxicillin DT needs bilateral discussion with DRAP and other stakeholders. 4. Preparation of bilateral meeting documents including invitation letters agenda, and studies, that has to be shared with participant etc. 5. Coordinate lobbying / Advocacy Bilateral meeting 6. Submission of final report of lobbying / Advocacy bilateral meeting (including minutes, conclusion and recommendations) 4.1.1.2 Potential Manufacturer for Registration In discussion with Pakistan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (PPMA), a manufacturer has been introduced, who is interested in registration of Co-package of ORS and Zinc DT and Amoxicillin DT. The manufacturer was already registered for Zinc DT with DRAP and soon they will receive the registration of ORS. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 36 4.2 Findings 4.2.1 Section I: Policy, Legislation and Regulation Pakistan has National Drug Policy, but does not clarify the duty taxes on import of donated items. The SRO notification of Government of Pakistan through DRAP, MNHS R&C, explains the exemption of the duty and taxes on import of drugs for donation in Gazette of Pakistan. The law and regulation of Pakistan promotes the local manufacturing of medicines, rather than, the import of finished drug from other countries; but in public interest, the import is allowed. The drug policy encourages the access of medicines at health service delivery sites. It also promotes or encourages the access of patient for utilizing the services by improving the availability of medicines at HF. In Punjab, on the other hand, public awareness has also been created through TV and print media. Provincial details are as follows 4.2.2 Section II: Product Selection The product selection of medicines