all of which are potentially life-threatening and require diﬀerent treatment courses: ■ Acute watery diarrhoea includes cholera and is associated with signiﬁcant ﬂuid loss and rapid dehydration in an infected individual. It usually lasts for several hours or days. The pathogens that generally cause acute watery diarrhoea include V. cholerae or E. coli bacteria, as well as rotavirus. ■ Bloody diarrhoea, often referred to as dysentery, is marked by visible blood in the stools. It is associated with intestinal damage and nutrient losses in an infected individual. The most common cause of bloody diarrhoea is Shigella, a bacterial agent that is also the most common cause of severe cases. ■ Persistent diarrhoea is an episode of diarrhoea, with or without blood, that lasts at least 14 days. Undernourished children and those with other illnesses, such as AIDS, are more likely to develop persistent diarrhoea. Diarrhoea, in turn, tends to worsen their condition. Why are children more vulnerable? Children with poor nutritional status and overall health, as well as those exposed to poor environmental conditions, are more susceptible to severe diarrhoea and dehydration than healthy children (Figure 5). Children are also at greater risk than adults of life-threatening dehydration since water constitutes a greater proportion of children’s bodyweight. Young children use more water over the course of a day given their higher metabolic rates, and their kidneys are less able to conserve water compared to older children and adults. How is diarrhoea prevented? Reducing childhood diarrhoea requires interventions to make children healthier and less likely to develop infections that lead to diarrhoea; clean environments that are less likely to transmit disease; and the support of communities and caregivers in consistently reinforcing healthy behaviours and practices over time. Nutrition, health and environmental factors all play a role in preventing and treating childhood diarrhoea Source: Adapted from the Child Health Epidemiology Reference Group, 2009. TREATMENT ■ Oral rehydration therapy ■ Zinc ■ Continued feeding (including breastfeeding) PREVENTION Primary prevention (to reduce disease transmission) ■ Rotavirus and measles vaccines ■ Handwashing with soap ■ Improved drinking water supply ■ Community-wide sanitation Secondary prevention (to reduce disease severity) ■ Promote breastfeeding ■ Vitamin A supplementation ■ Zinc REDUCE RISK FACTORS Prevent stunting Key actions to reduce the burden of childhood diarrhoea FIGURE 5 Diarrhoeal diseases: The basics 2 11 include: disposing of human excreta in a sanitary manner, washing hands with soap, increasing access to