in implementing districts of Punjab and Sindh agreed on the role and responsibilities of Lady Health Workers. They seemed satisfied with their performance, acknowledged their role in raising awareness and treating diseases as well as their contribution to the society. LHWs provide indispensable services to the country’s poor and marginalized, particularly in the rural and remotes parts of the country. Their role was defined to be crucial in early diagnosis, initial management and referral of cases for Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Due to their door-to-door services, LHWs role was valued and believed to be critical in reducing the rate of mortality and morbidity caused due to childhood illnesses. Provincial and district coordinators in Punjab and Sindh involved in monitoring LHWs performance seemed satisfied and acknowledged their role in raising awareness about illnesses and improved hygiene along with treating diseases. They were viewed as first point of contact between the community and healthcare system and agents of rural change. A district coordinator from Dadu highlighted their role as “. LHWs are important workers in the community. They can reach and approach every corner of catchment area which are inaccessible for others.” Lady Health Workers enjoyed a good rapport with their respective caregivers. Caregivers were of the view that these Lady Health Workers bring about community participation through awareness creation, change of attitudes, and mobilization of support. They were seen to be geographically closer and more readily available than health care facilities. Caregivers from Karachi (Malir) district of Sindh were of the view, “…. Our LHWs provide care without cultural and linguistic barriers. Lady health workers are very polite. They have helped increase awareness for improved sanitation and hygiene.” LHWs contribution in preventing and treating ARI and Diarrheal illnesses was especially important in terms of awareness creation and timely management. Mothers from Jacobabad district of Sindh highlighted their role, and stated that “LHWs visit our house and provide awareness about benefits of ORS and Zinc syrup in case of Diarrheal illnesses.’ Finding: Project objectives are highly consistent with Pakistan’s national vision and priorities for child health. This finding highlights the policies and guidelines relevant to child health and how consistent are the project objectives with them according to the policy makers. There was an EQ: To what extent the objectives of the project are consistent with the existing national/provincial policies and guidelines in line with global recommendations (WHO/ GAPPD) for management of Diarrhea