Drinking Water – Many people blamed lack of clean drinking water as the main contributor of diseases in the community. Awareness about importance of clean drinking water was prevalent among parents and they complained about its inaccessibility. Almost every parent was frustrated about the quality of water. A detailed response came from a parent in Punjab; “In our area … Lack of clean drinking source is the main factor promoting Pneumonia and Diarrhea on our side.” Malnutrition – Multiple parents cited malnutrition and unhealthy diet as the prime cause of child mortality, contraction of diseases and general unhealthiness. Parents related child mortality to lack of availability of food rather than diseases. A parent from Sindh elaborated, “In our area, there are too many mosquitos but nobody dies because of any disease, instead there are many casualties because of food deficiency.” Many parents mentioned that lack of healthy and hygienic food also led to many diseases. A parent from Sindh discussed his child’s condition and unhealthy eating habits, “He kept vomiting for 10 days…He buys chips and candies from market which might be the reason behind his condition.” Extreme Temperature Changes – Changing weather, seasonal variation along with sudden and extreme change in temperature was also held responsible in promoting diseases. Drinking cold water, getting wet in the rain, exposure to heat were some of the activities mentioned in this context. Parents were aware that cold weather had to be countered with warm clothing. According to a parent in Punjab, “Pneumonia can be prevented by keeping the children warm in winter season and preventing them from drinking chilled water. As for Diarrhea it can be prevented by avoiding unhygienic food and by stopping children from putting random things in their mouths.” 4.2.8.2 Accessing Treatment Most parents accessed medical treatment through government facilities, self-medication and as a last resort through private hospitals. Home remedies, spiritual healing and hakeem treatment (Tibb) were most popular other forms of treatment. When inquired about peer or cultural pressure in seeking any health services, majority of the parents revealed that no such pressure existed. Most parents attributed improved literacy and increase in awareness as the major factor for such notion. Government health facilities seemed to be preferred above all other alternatives for treatment. While seeking 60 treatment at government facilities, some parents specifically mentioned that two factors were quite important; free services and accessibility. Free Services –