deficiencies did you notice in these trainings? In your view, how can these be improved? vi. If you have received training, did any refresher follow it? If no, what could be the reason for not providing refresher training? 3. Now, I would like to know about the use of protocols and guidelines (like IMCI guidelines) for managing pneumonia and diarrhea in children at your clinic. What are these protocols and guidelines, kindly explain? Probes: Midterm Evaluation Report 117 i. Can you please explain their usefulness in diagnosing and treating childhood illness? ii. If no such specific protocols/guidelines are available, can you please comment on the reasons? 4. Now, we will like to know about the diagnosis and management of Pneumonia at your clinic? Please tell us how do you diagnose children suffering from Pneumonia? Probes: i. How do you diagnose and classify Pneumonia on the basis of its severity and does its treatment also varies accordingly? Kindly explain. ii. Do you think any particular equipment is essential for the diagnosis of pneumonia? If there is any deficiency, please explain reasons for shortage of equipment. iii. How commonly antibiotics are used for treatment of Pneumonia? iv. Have you ever heard of any dispersible (soluble in water) antibiotic tablet? If so, do you perceive any advantage of dispersible tablets over syrups? What do you routinely prescribe? v. In your opinion, what is the perception of the community regarding use of dispersible tablets? vi. Do you think there is any role and advantage of using oxygen in treating pneumonia? Is it being used at your clinic? If not, can you explain the reasons? vii. In case of complicated Pneumonia cases, what referral mechanisms exist for transferring these children to higher-level health facilities? 5. Can you please tell us how do you manage children suffering from Diarrhea at your clinic? Probes: i. How do you diagnose childhood diarrhea and do you differentiate it from dysentery? ii. Now focusing on diarrhea, do you classify patients on the basis of severity of dehydration? If so, how? iii. What options do you have to treat childhood diarrhea with oral medications? iv. Is there any role of oral Zinc in its treatment? If so, what type of Zinc formulation is usually provided at your clinic? v. Have you ever heard of any dispersible (soluble in water) tablets of Zinc? If so, do you perceive any advantage of dispersible