of private provider’s facilities. d) Reporting indicators within DHIS and perspective of the clients exiting the healthcare facility. 3.2 RESEARCH DESIGN This was a cross-sectional study that mainly utilized primary qualitative research techniques as well as desk research. Primary data was collected through key informant interviews, focus group discussions, policy dialogues, facility readiness assessment for Diarrhea and Pneumonia treatment, consultations and consensus building with relevant stakeholders in order to meet the research objectives. Secondary data was based on existing national and international child survival policies and strategies related to Pneumonia and Diarrhea. The research is also supplemented by a dissemination plan (see Annex 4) in order to reach out to the wider community. 3.3 MAIN RESEARCH QUESTIONS This research design revolved around the following basic research questions which were further incorporated in interview and FGD guides. • What are the gaps in existing policies relevant to child survival strategies with regard to GAPPD? • Why is there a gap in translation of policies to ensure commodity access related to diarrhoea and Pneumonia? • What are the gaps in availability of commodities (equipment and medicines) and treatment approaches? • What is the existing availability and production status of updated formation of commodities for management of childhood Pneumonia and diarrhoea as per GAPPD? • What are the driving (facilitators) and resisting (barriers) forces influencing policy translation and commodity access? • What action can be proposed to support policy translation and commodity access? 25 3.4 RESEARCH TOOLKIT To prepare comprehensive and well-informed qualitative tools for primary data collection, consultations were held with key stakeholders in order to appraise their expectations from the entire research process. These stakeholders included government officials from the health departments of the four provinces, UNICEF program team, WHO officials, officials from Policy Unit in Punjab, members of child survival groups in Punjab and Sindh. These sessions informed the scope of the research and facilitated in defining the research questions. They also provided opportunities for building consensus through participatory and consultative approach at both Federal and provincial level. Based on these consultations, tools (qualitative guides, protocols and questionnaires) were devised (see Annex 2), sensitized to local cultural settings and shared with UNICEF team for any possible feedback. Subsequently they were also pretested in relevant field setting and further revised. Pretesting facilitated in determining any possible problems faced in data collection including contextual interpretations and time management for administering tools. Tools