a doctor, “He has blessings as patient get well after taking medicines from this doctor. Whenever our children get sick, we visit this doctor.” Another parent from Sindh claimed, “Children are quickly cured through this hospital and doctor is also very professional.” Suggestions for Improvement The parents had plenty of suggestions for improving health facilities. Some categorically mentioned aspects for improvement including, free medication, availability of pediatricians and lady doctors, 24-hour service, better lab testing, more staff recruitments, more spacious health facilities etc. A detailed feedback came from a parent in Punjab, “Pediatricians should be available at our center. Hygiene situation should improve, water sanitation should be satisfactory, lab tests should be instantly conducted.” Moreover, all medicines should be available at the hospital. In a nutshell, respondents wanted improvements in all the determinants, which have been discussed in this section. Summary of Perspective of Parents/Guardians • Wanted access to clean drinking water and clean and hygienic surroundings • Wanted government facilities to provide good quality services including free of cost medicines, availability of all medicines, better accessibility to the facility (through transport or through proximity within the community), 24 hours availability of doctors, less waiting time to see a doctor, infrastructure and support facilities at the hospital (less congested space, seating arrangement, clean drinking water). • Wanted governments to act more responsible towards their wellbeing and wanted governments efforts more visible in the healthcare system Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 125 FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS Introduction According to National Demographic and Health Survey (2013), prevalence of diarrhea has shown a gradual increase in under five children since 1990; from 15 percent in 1990-91 to 22 percent in 2006-7 and then to 23 percent in 2012-13. It was highest among children between the ages of 6-11 months. During the same period, about 16 percent children reported in the OPD with symptoms of Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI), including pneumonia. Though about 65 percent of these children sought treatment, only 41.5 percent received antimicrobial therapy. According to fresh count (PBS, 2017), Pakistan has a total population of 207, 774,520, of which 30,750,628 (14.8%) are under the age of 5 years. Among this age group, 7,072,644 suffer from diarrhea and 4,920,100 have ARI each year. GAPPD (2013) recommends use of low osmolarity ORS and zinc for the treatment of diarrhea and appropriate antimicrobial (e.g. Amoxicillin) for the treatment of Pneumonia to reduce Under 5 morbidity and