months to 5 years. Source: Adapted from Suzy News, October 2008, ICDDR, B, http://www. icddrb.org/what-we-do/publications/cat_view/52-publications/10042-icddrbperiodicals/10071-suzy-news/10095-vol-5-no-2-english-2008/11671-baby-zincmass-media-campaign-dhansiris-experience. 28 Box 15. Communication strategies Communication strategies to inform and motivate individual, community and social change are vital for child survival programmes. To this end, UNICEF and its partners recently developed the Communication Framework for New Vaccines and Child Survival to support the introduction of new vaccines for pneumonia and diarrhoea. This effort is part of a comprehensive package to also strengthen complementary ‘healthy actions’ for pneumonia and diarrhoea control, such as early and exclusive breastfeeding, handwashing with soap, vaccinations, appropriate care seeking for illness symptoms and clean household energy, among others. New vaccines require communication strategies not only to promote uptake of these vaccines, but also to prevent unrealistic community expectations that could damage immunization programmes. The communication framework stresses a structured approach to guide the design, implementation and evaluation of a national communication plan for child survival. Communication is challenging, and there is more than one way to carry it out correctly. It must be based on the information needs of the intended target audience, crafted to both inform and motivate, linked to programme goals, based on sound analysis and research and structured to include rigorous monitoring and evaluation. In another communication effort, in 2009, groups from around the globe came together to launch WPD. It united a broad coalition and focused the attention of policy-makers and journalists. With each year, the momentum continues to grow as more parents, health workers and policy-makers lend their voices to the cause. Thousands of advocates — representing more than 140 organizations in over 40 countries — have joined the Global Coalition Against Child Pneumonia to fight this disease. Events commemorating the fourth annual WPD in 2012 were planned for nearly a dozen countries. Source: UNICEF 2011a, adapted from extract quoted in UNICEF 2012; IVAC. World pneumonia day, http://www.jhsph.edu/research/centers-and-institutes/ ivac/projects/world-pneumonia-day.html, accessed 5 November 2012.; Communication Framework link: https://sites.google.com/site/commframe/. 8 . Areas needing special attention In the past, some important areas needed to carry out this action plan effectively have not received adequate attention. With a changing climate, an increased number of large protracted outbreaks, recurring global food and nutrition crises and rapid and unplanned urbanization, programmes for diarrhoea and pneumonia should be flexible and able to understand the risks as well as adapt to changes in context. • Involvement with the private sector In many high-mortality countries,