have the capacity to meet the existing and future country’s demand. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 159 Summary of Findings of Pharmaceutical Feasibility • Pharmaceutical Industry provides high-quality essential drugs at affordable prices to millions and is growing technologically stronger and capturing more and more international markets by each passing day. It is now meeting 70 % of country’s demand of finished products. • The DRAP regulates production of drugs and ensures safety of people by issuing license to only legitimate manufacturers who fulfil international standard of cGMPs and puts various checks on unregistered and spurious drugs. The registration process can be expedited for any new molecule or a formulation, such as dispersible formulation (DT) of Zinc, if needed on urgent basis in the public interest. Under its current policy, manufacturers are not allowed to market co-packed Zinc and ORS, however there is no bar if co-packaging is done after purchase. Registration process takes about a year for technical approval and at least 3-4 months for pricing. • Findings of the field survey revealed absence of dispersible tablets of Amoxicillin and Zinc at assessed health facilities and Pharmacies across in the Punjab and Sindh. Anecdotal evidence collected from distributers and retailers in the large cities revealed that demand for zinc in dispersible form is restricted to selected institutions on demand. Most consumers trust their clinicians with regards to choice of treatment. Some believe that there is more TASEER which speeds up recovery. • Fifteen large to medium sized local Pharmaceutical Companies were identified which were known to produce Zinc DT and Low Osmolarity ORS. Five key companies; ZAFA, ATCO, FEROZSONS, AMSON and Well n Well have expressed willingness to enhance production after agreeing on promotion strategy jointly prepared with UNICEF. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 160 Summary of Findings of Pharmaceutical Feasibility (continued) • Factors that may influence supply include capability & capacity to use technology, profitability, presence of substitute, site of manufacturing plant and sustenance of demand. Factors which may influence demand include; Affordability, Availability/Access, Operational and marketing strategies. • At present, ZAFA is the only known local manufacturer of Amoxicillin DT in Pakistan with a production capacity of 1.4 million tablets per day. Considering prevalence of ARI and availability of substitutes and other competing factors, it is presumed that ZAFA alone can meet the requirement of Amoxicillin DT in just 53 work days if manufacture in full capacity.