also made significant progress updating the commodities in the essential medicine lists and in the health information systems at the primary and secondary level. Sindh has made some significant progress regarding the child survival. One particularly glaring example is the draft of the Child Survival strategy. This strategy puts the required emphasis on the child survival. Furthermore, Sindh has been able to include the updated commodities in the essential medicine list. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 166 However, at the federal level the national essential medicine list needs to be updated. Similarly, IMNCI Guidelines need to be updated with the GAPPD recommendations for the management of pneumonia and diarrhea. Once the guidelines for the IMNCI put emphasis on the recommended commodities, it will help to change the prescribing behaviour in both the public and private sector. Furthermore, it is important that existing structures of monitoring are employed for an effective accountability mechanism. In this regard it is important to understand that the Policy and Strategic Planning Unit and the Chief Minister of Punjab’s Special Monitoring Unit are taken on board. In this regard, it would be of great value that indicators related to pneumonia and diarrhea are included in the stock take of the Chief Minister of Punjab. In Sindh, it would be helpful to notify a dedicated focal person for the monitoring of pneumonia and diarrhea commodities. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 167 Accountability Framework Final Outcome 1: Putting in Place Updated Policies and Strategies Outcomes (Strategic Objectives) Activities Primarily Responsible Supporting Partner Indicators Federal Level Decision makers are on board for the new recommendations on the treatment of pneumonia and diarrhea Establish and operationalize the CSG at the federal level MNHSRC UNICEF • CSG Notified at the Federal Level • Number of CSG meetings conducted • CSG meetings scoring criteria developed Develop a coordination mechanism for the CSGs CSG MNHSRC • Coordination mechanism developed for CSGs Recommendations of the CSG are made binding upon the government MNHSRC UNICEF, CSG • Notification Issued Conduct advocacy for policy change CSG UNICEF • Number of seminars, meetings and advocacy sessions conducted Federal level medicine lists include the updated commodities Include the updated commodities in the national essential medicine lists DRAP UNICEF • New Essential Medicine list containing the updated commodities notified Federal level procurement lists include the updated commodities Include the updated commodities in the federal procurement lists DRAP UNICEF •