about peer or cultural pressure in seeking any health services, majority of the parents revealed that no such pressure existed in accessing health care. Most parents attributed improved literacy and increase in awareness as the major factor for such notion. A parent from Punjab expounded, “There was a time when the culture and family norms effected (choosing treatment) but not today because we prefer to go in these government health facilities for getting the treatment and medicine, mainly because it is free of charge and has sufficient services. If the child doesn’t get better we are most likely to come here again…” Government health facilities seemed to be preferred above all other alternatives for treatment. While seeking treatment at government facilities, some parents specifically mentioned that two factors were quite important; free services and accessibility. Free Services – It was observed that many parents weren’t satisfied with the services they received at a government hospital. Nonetheless, some parents said that they would visit again as those facilities provided free medication and they were the best possible option for treatment for most of the poverty stricken households. According to a parent from Sindh, “We like to visit this center most of the time. Medicines are available here too. If my child didn’t get well, I’ll again visit this same place because we cannot afford other health centers.” However some parents complained of substandard services and medicines not being free of cost, “… Medicines are not available in government hospitals and they do not conduct checkup properly. Medicine should be provided free of cost for the needy.” Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 116 Accessibility – Many respondents complained that they found it hard to access the remote and far-flung government health facilities, being forced to either rely on home remedies or seek treatment in the expensive private hospitals. A parent from Punjab stated, “People have to go to private medical centers for availing the medical services because government health facilities are very far away from the access of people.” Another respondent from Sindh backed this up by saying, “We treat our child at home due to long distance. If our child did not get well we will visit to DHQ.” Another parent from Sindh shared similar view, “… We have to get few medicines from city, which is far away from our village. Travelling to the city is time consuming and expensive.