on maternal health, immunization and breast-feeding practices. The only negative effect identified through the project was the perceptions of the mothers and caregivers developed after the introduction of dispersible tablets. Rural community did not realise the difference between a regular tablet and dispersible tablet. This led to their lack of acceptance for the use dispersible tablets in children. Although this effect was very rare but there is need to clearly explain the usage of dispersible tablets. 4.2.4 Sustainability Sustainability has been assessed to measure whether the benefits of the project are likely to continue after donor funding has been withdrawn. Finding: Sustainability and replicability of the project is to be ensured through institutionalisation of key policies and guidelines through health systems strengthening approach. Government has the decisive role in making this project sustainable by incorporating it into their policy and implementing it in true letter and spirit. Government has shown their commitment in assuming P&D project as one of its own which is reflected through various measures they have taken in this regard. Revision of IMNCI Guidelines – IMNCI guidelines have been revised and updated allocating distinct training sessions on our diseases of interest i.e. Pneumonia and Diarrhea. This was made possible with the technical assistance from UNICEF after a series of comprehensive consultative meetings with all the stakeholders (Government, Technical Working Groups and Development Partners). In the revised version of community IMNCI training manual, not only P&D are given specific attention by assigning training sessions separately but also, the training duration of IMNCI has been made compact (shortened from eleven to six days). This will emphasize the importance of and help focus the healthcare providers these particular health problems, hence, their better management. The trainings on revised IMNCI manuals are being carried out successfully across Sindh and Punjab. A health manager from Sindh reported, “We have over 300 Basic Health Units in which staff is receiving trainings on IMNCI/WHO guidelines.” A Child Survival Group member from Sindh, commented about the Revised IMNCI trainings, “…these trainings highlight the importance of usage of Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT and L-ORS in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea.” Essential Medicine List and MSDP Updated UNICEF assisted Federal and Provincial governments in Pakistan for the provision of updated six commodities for management of EQ: What evidences exists to see the likelihood of the project results are sustained and will be adopted by the Government to