under the stewardship of national and provincial Child Survival Groups? • Is there a Coordination mechanism in the selected province and at national/provincial levels? • What measures have you taken to ensure appropriate levels of service delivery for P&D commodities? • Is there any kind of technical support to national and provincial governments I aligning theses to GAPPD & in line with recommendations of landscape analysis? Midterm Evaluation Report 93 bDo National, provincial, and district essential medicines and procurement lists include Amoxicillin DT, co-packaged LoORS & Zinc DT, ARI Timers, Pulse Oximeters and Oxygen? cIs there any kind of technical support to national and provincial governments for updating management guidelines (IMNCI), essential medicines lists, Minimum Service Delivery Package (MSDP)? • Did you develop/print evidence-based briefing papers/policy notes on benefits of Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, co-packaged ORS and Zinc, Pulse Oximeters, ARI timer and oxygen in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • Do you have National & provincial consultations with child survival groups and other relevant stakeholders to review and endorse briefing papers/policy notes to help build consensus on the recommendations for strengthening of logistics system and updated EMLs & procurement lists? 2-Has there been a translation of revised and updated pneumonia and diarrhea treatment guidelines into relevant action plans by all provincial/areas health departments in Pakistan? If yes: a-To what extent did the utilization of revised National Pneumonia & Diarrhea management/IMNCI guidelines help improve knowledge, skills, and capacities of Healthcare workers at national/provincial levels? • Technical assistance to draft the revised community IMNCI training manuals? • Dissemination of IMNCI Guidelines and training modules with the public and private sectors? • Has there been any kind of orientation on updated EMLs, MSDPs, and procurement lists b-Are concerned national, provincial, and district level policy and decision makers sensitized on necessary resource allocation for management of childhood pneumonia and diarrhea? c3-In order to ensure availability of essential commodities (Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, copackaged ORS and Zinc, Oxygen, ARI Timers and Pulse Oximeters) for treatment of childhood pneumonia and diarrhea in Pakistan, can you please explain: • Logistics, procurement, and supply chain management systems updated and strengthened to include recommended commodities for pneumonia and diarrhea management? • Phased procurement and supply of pneumonia and diarrhea commodities for selected provinces/districts 4-what measures are required to translate lessons learned from this project to other geographical scopes within Pakistan? Midterm Evaluation Report 94 • What actions are