39 per cent of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receive the recommended treatment (ORT with continued feeding) to prevent dehydration and worsening nutritional status. Africa has the lowest levels of treatment coverage (35 per cent), followed by South Asia (37 per cent) and the Middle East & North Africa (39 per cent). East Asia and the Paciﬁc (excluding China) have the highest treatment coverage levels, at 55 per cent (Figure 14). Boys and girls receive appropriate care at similar rates. Children in urban areas (42 per cent) are more likely to receive the recommended treatment than those living in rural areas (38 per cent). Similarly, children from the wealthiest households (40 per cent) are more likely to receive the recommended treatment than those from the poorest households (34 per cent) (Figure 15). Treatment Since the 1970s, oral rehydration therapy, pioneered by the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh (Box 8), has been the mainstay of diarrhoea treatment programmes. However, treatment recommendations have changed over time to reﬂect a better understanding of what works to reduce child deaths from diarrhoea as well as new insights into treatment feasibility.40 These changes in treatment recommendations have subsequently led to changes in how treatment coverage has been monitored (Figure 12) and the indicators used to measure progress. These various treatment indicators may show markedly diﬀerent coverage and, in some cases, diﬀerent assessments of trends over time (Figure 13). There are other challenges in monitoring treatment coverage, which are discussed in the section entitled ‘Data used in this report’ on page 37. Despite these challenges, the data presented here are useful indications of how well regions and countries are doing in treating childhood diarrhoea. This section assesses coverage of key interventions to prevent dehydration and worsening nutritional status among children with diarrhoea. It includes TIME PERIOD RECOMMENDED TREATMENT INDICATOR FOR MONITORING TREATMENT COVERAGE 2004 to present Oral rehydration therapy with continued feeding Proportion of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving oral rehydration therapy (an ORS packet or recommended homemade ﬂuids or increased ﬂuids) and continued feeding Early 1990s to early 2000s Increased ﬂuids and continued feeding (known as home management of diarrhoea) Proportion of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving increased ﬂuids and continued feeding Late 1980s to early 1990s Oral rehydration salts or recommended homemade ﬂuids (RHF) Proportion of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving an ORS packet or RHF 36 75 70