alike, contained Zinc suspension in Sindh, but in Punjab while specialists’ prescriptions often contained Zinc, most GPs did not recommend it. A definite association was observed between the visits of medical representatives, provision of incentives and prescription trend of most care providers, particularly in the private sector. Most pharmacies visited by the survey teams had stock of Amoxicillin and Zinc in syrup form, but did not keep dispersible formulations of either Amoxicillin or Zinc in their stock for lack of such demand by the healthcare providers. This was further verified, when prescriptions issued to the clients by care providers at the health facilities were reviewed. In the opinion of most pharmacy in-charges, people tend to accept whatever formulation (whether syrup or DT) was prescribed by his/her physician as long as medicine remained within affordable range. The same view was also endorsed by majority of clients interviewed; one of whom said, “I provide my children whatever my clinician considers best, whether in syrup or tablet or any other form.” When asked, Pharmacists expressed willingness to keep dispersible formulations in stock provided adequate demand is generated through prescriptions. In case of non-availability of prescription drug, nearly half of the pharmacy in-charges arranged it from other sources, a little over quarter referred the client to other source while the rest either provided substitute or simply regretted. Over the counter sale of drug on demand without prescription was hardly refused. Majority of pharmacy in-charges felt no hesitation in prescribing medicines themselves, if so demanded by clients. Rural community was more inclined to accept dispersible tablets, since it believed tablets were more effective than syrup. According to a Pharma Market Advisor/ Analyst, most people residing in the rural set-up believe, “…Tablet which gets dissolved in water carries more TASEER and thus speed-up recovery.” This tendency may be exploited to create demand for the dispersible commodities of Zinc and Amoxicillin in the rural community. In the urban areas, particularly mega cities like Lahore, anecdotal evidence from large-scale distributers and established retailers has revealed that overall demand for Zinc remains low and is particularly sparse for dispersible formulation. Similarly the demand for low osmolarity ORS is not very different. Most of these commodities are currently being supplied to cater to specific demand of pedestrians at select institutions. 71 5.3.1 Supply of Pneumonia and Diarrhea Commodities Supply of Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities was assessed by reviewing availability status