areas of equity and gender equality), have been taken into account while selecting these indicators. This evaluation matrix formed the basis of data collection and analysis. 2.1 Global Scenario Substantial developments in terms of child survival were observed throughout the globe during the past two decades making it possible for millions of children have a better chance of survival then earlier times. Estimated mortality rate of children under the age of 5 is 9 million per annum: nearly all occurring in low-and middle-income countries (Houweling & Kunst, 2009). Differences in equity of progress in reducing childhood mortality rates exist between and within countries. Dimensions of these inequities are complex and range from socioeconomic status, geographical location, urban and rural residence, gender and ethnic groups (Arregoces et al, 2015; UNICEF, 2018). Regions with socioeconomic disparities can experience under 5 mortality rates as high as 9 out of every 10 children (Arregoces et al, 2015; UNICEF, 2018). Global burden of child deaths especially in lowand middle-income countries is a call for urgent and intense action to further rally the survival chances of children around the world. In developing countries, health care often counts on both public and private sectors. Regrettably, these sectors are often poorly coordinated, regulated, and supported, resulting in gaps in services, lost opportunities, and unsustainable system (Alijanzadeh et al., 2016). Available public health facilities are exhausted and depersonalized with low personal accomplishments Midterm Evaluation Report 18 due to massive disease burden and prevailing poverty and socio-economic constraints along with medical supply shortages (Rachiotis et al., 2014). While in private sector, patients have to bear out-of-pocket expenditure, which compels the underprivileged members of the society to fall in a vicious disease-poverty cycle, which leads to worsening of existing health condition and monetary constraints. 2.1.1 Global Initiatives for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Since late 90s’, the emphasis on child health has been seen, either through global goals (MDGs and SDGs), IMCI programmes or Pneumonia and Diarrhea programmes (Taylor, Schumacher & Davis, 2016). Preventive and management initiatives around the globe are of significant consideration due to these high mortality rates. The Global Strategies for Women’s and Children’s Health developed by United Nations Secretary General in 2010 stresses on factors that can help control Pneumonia and Diarrhea by effective and proficient use of assets, that can in turn assist in establishment of synergies between allies (United Nations Secretary General, 2012). In the same way,