action needed for ending preventable childhood pneumonia and diarrhoea deaths. • The World Health Assembly Resolution 63.24 (16), endorsed in 2010, encourages all countries to implement the actions outlined in the GAPP as a national priority. It calls for the establishment of evidence-based policies and national plans to control pneumonia, and asks for reports of progress on pneumonia control as part of the annual report on progress towards reaching the MDGs. • International Decade for Action ‘Water for Life’ 2005-2015 and Sustainable Sanitation: Five-Year-Drive to 2015 (17) were established by the United Nations General Assembly in resolutions adopted in 2005 and 2010, respectively. They state that water and sanitation are indispensable for human health and well-being and call upon Member States to redouble efforts to close the safe drinking-water and sanitation gaps (18). • The United Nations Sustainable Energy for All initiative (SEFA) is a public-private effort led by the Secretary General working towards universal access to modern energy services by 2030. It addresses access to both electricity (in homes and communities, including health facilities) and energy services for cooking and heating. It aims to secure the investment, technology and other developments required to provide clean (pollution free) and safe household energy, and advocates for robust monitoring and evaluation. • The United Nations CoIA (19) highlights the need for periodic large-scale population-based surveys as a complement to national health information. It is developing a system to track whether donations for women’s and children’s health are made on time, whether resources are spent wisely and transparently, and whether the desired results are achieved. An Independent Expert Review Group prepares a progress report and presents it to the United Nations Secretary General in September of each year. • The Global Vaccine Action Plan (GVAP) (20), endorsed by the World Health Assembly in 2012, calls for delivery of vaccines as part of the package of complementary interventions for control of diseases, particularly pneumonia and diarrhoea. • The Rio + 20 conference in 2012 (21) outcome document states that sustainable development can only be achieved in the absence of debilitating communicable and noncommunicable diseases, and where populations have physical, mental and social well-being. It commits to high coverage of effective interventions and to reducing child mortality. The GAPPD aligns with and builds on the above initiatives, and provides a roadmap for implementation. 13 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of