and procurement and supply chain expert. Figure 4: Organogram of Evaluation Team Backstopping & Advisory Team Principal Investigator Evaluation Expert Research Expert Research Associate Qualitative Research Expert Medical Anthropologist Transcribers Senior Bio-Statistician/Data Manager Field Manager/ Supervior Field teams Enumerators Sociologists Midterm Evaluation Report 31 Through this qualified and experienced team, the following aspects of the evaluation were strengthened in addition to overall assurance of the quality of evaluation work. • Developing and implementing a transparent system for evaluation • Having adequate number of well trained and qualified staff • Developing strong participation approach • Basing decisions and making recommendations on quality information 3.5 Procedural Steps and Quality Assurance Mechanisms 3.5.1 Ethical Considerations Ethical considerations for this evaluation are built on UNICEF Procedure for Ethical Standards in Research, Evaluation, Data Collection and Analysis and to the UNICEF Strategic Guidance Note on Institutionalizing Ethical Practice for UNICEF Research. The ethical review board (ERB) of UNICEF cleared this evaluation and their certificate is attached at Annex 3. Both Field and technical teams maintained the highest standards of integrity, sensitivity, and confidentiality in dealing with informants, to ensure that the dignity, human, and civil rights of people involved, are respected. Overall, the ‘do no harm’ principle was applied throughout, especially when working in the field. UNICEF’s protocol on Ethical Standards in Research and Data Collection and UNEG’s ethical standards for data collection and evaluation was also incorporated in the trainings and ensured that it was strictly being observed. Additionally, following ethical considerations were imparted for data collection: Informed Consent: Interviewers respected the rights of interviewed individuals. Every individual had the right to refuse to participate, or to refuse to answer specific questions. Verbal and written consent was sought after explaining the objective of evaluation, data collection procedures, along with risks and benefits. Field staff read out contents of consent forms and clarified any apprehensions of respondent/participants and interviews only continued after getting a formal approval. Privacy: It is important that data collection process be conducted in a manner, comfortable for each respondent, and in which the individual is able to speak openly and honestly. The enumerators and facilitators made sure that the place of interview provided privacy for the interviews and FGDs. Confidentiality: Interviewers may not discuss participants’ answers with anyone, except the supervisor when clarification was needed. Individuals’ names or other identifying information was not be linked to any responses. Safety and security