for Women’s and Children’s Health developed by United Nations Secretary General in 2010 stresses on factors that can help control Pneumonia and Diarrhea by effective and proficient use of assets, that can in turn assist in establishment of synergies between allies (United Nations Secretary General, 2012). In the same way, The World Health Assembly Resolution 2010, supported all countries to implement the GAPP action plans at national levels. GAPP, action plan calls for the establishment of evidence-based policies and national plans’ for controlling Pneumonia (Resolution WHA63.24, 2010). United Nations Commission on Life-Saving commodities for Women and Children, in 2012, targeted to improve marketing, supply and monitoring of neglected commodities while taking into consideration gap in demand and supply of commodities for Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Affordable commodities like Oral rehydration salt (ORS), Zinc DT and oral amoxicillin DT though inexpensive but proven to be effective measures for treating Pneumonia and Diarrhea were made part of commission’s mandate. To ensure the supply of commodities nationwide as well as to improve the market and quality of these commodities, the recommendation of involving potential stakeholders were made. As a result a complementary intervention The Global Vaccine Action Plan (GVAP) was launched by World Health Assembly, in 2012, to control the disease primarily Pneumonia and Diarrhea (WHO, 2012). Similarly, universal movement of UNICEF and USAID committing to child survival: A Promise Renewed, worked in 180 regimes and countries guaranteed scale up struggles to help curb the disease burden maternal, new-born and child mortality. The Every New-born Action Plan was established to demonstrate consent on the activities that were necessary to be taken to enhance the improvement on survival of newborn. Political will and activities with dedication were of great need in order to deliver assets to help reduce mortality due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea for which a focused struggle at universal level was made in 2012, named as Declaration on Scaling up Treatment of Diarrhea and Pneumonia. Where in all donors, industry and non-governmental organizations calls on high burden countries and international community for commitment towards provision of resources, political will and focused action. UNICEF and World health Organization tossed the Integrated Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD), suggesting a consistent methodology to address mortality rate due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea. GAPPD provides an opportunity for the global community to address these leading causes of child deaths in an integrated and coordinated fashion.