know about the diagnosis of pneumonia in your clinic/hospital? Please tell us how do you diagnose children suffering from Pneumonia? Probes: • Do you think any particular equipment (ARI Timers, Oxygen cylinders and Pulse Oximeters) is essential for the diagnosis of pneumonia? If there is any deficiency, please explain reasons for shortage of equipment. • How commonly antibiotics are used for the treatment of pneumonia? • Do you think there is any role and advantage of using oxygen in treating pneumonia? Is it being used at your clinic/hospital? If not, can you explain the reasons? • In your opinion, how deficiencies in equipment can be address? Midterm Evaluation Report 100 6Can you please tell us how do you manage children suffering from Diarrhea at your clinic/hospital? Probes: • How do you diagnose childhood diarrhea on the basis of severity of illness and do you differentiate it from dysentery? • What options do you have to treat childhood diarrhea with oral medications? • Is there any role of oral Zinc and low Osmolarity ORS in its treatment? If so, what type of Zinc formulation do you usually prescribe? • Do you think there is any advantage of using Low Osmolarity ORS compared to regular ORS in treating Diarrhea? • What do you think is the reason for their acceptability/ non-acceptability? • Do you have new commodities like Zinc DT and Low Osmolarity ORS in your clinic/hospital? • If yes, do you prefer prescribing new commodities like Zinc DT and Low Osmolarity ORS in your clinic/hospital over the other ones? • Do you think there is a difference in results in recovery process using new commodities as compared to using syrup and regular ORS? • In your opinion, what is the beneficiaries’ reaction to using dispersible tablets and LO ORS? Do you think they are acceptable? 7-Now, I would like you to comment on the cost of treating Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • In your opinion, does cost play a significant influence over the choice of medicines prescribed and service provider? • If you are prescribing new commodities, do you think there has been any change in cost of treatment per patient? • How commonly do you prescribe medicines related to the treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea to be bought from market in case of its stock-out? 8In your opinion what should be done to improve the quality of pneumonia and diarrhea services