protection, prevention and treatment. For example, Zambia has a Child Health Technical Working Group which covers pneumonia and diarrhoea, in addition to other issues. In many countries, control of these two diseases forms the core of primary health care (PHC). Addressing their prevention and management as integrated bundles helps to strengthen weak health systems. This action plan provides an integrated framework of key interventions to protect, prevent and treat pneumonia and diarrhoea in children less than five years of age. It offers suggestions of supporting activities to improve and accelerate the implementation of interventions of proven benefit. The GAPPD does not present a change of direction in terms of what needs to be done. It simply identifies opportunities to better integrate activities as well as capture synergies and efficiencies. It proposes an integrated framework of interventions to control diarrhoea and pneumonia (described in section 5) and provides a range of supporting activities to improve and accelerate the implementation of these interventions (explained in section 8). Audience: The GAPPD is intended primarily for national governments and their partners, and secondarily for global organizations, donor agencies and other actors working on pneumonia and diarrhoea. The GAPPD also recognizes that community-level groups and individuals will be critical for effective implementation of the strategy. 4 . The GAPPD as part of the global effort to improve women’s and children’s health The GAPPD builds on and strengthens many initiatives aimed at improving child health up to 2015 and beyond, including: • The Global Strategy for Women’s and Children’s Health (1) developed under the auspices of the United Nations Secretary General and launched in 2010. This strategy identifies the key areas where action is urgently required to enhance financing, strengthen policy and improve service delivery. Pneumonia and diarrhoea control are specifically mentioned in the Global Strategy’s framework (Figure 2). Resources committed to this strategy can strengthen synergies between partners, help avoid duplication and facilitate more effective and efficient use of resources. The GAPPD complements this strategy by spelling out the pneumonia and diarrhoea issues more specifically. • The United Nations Commission on Life-Saving Commodities for Women and Children (15) aims to strengthen marketing, distribution and monitoring of 13 underutilized or neglected commodities. Its recommendations focus on the improvement of markets and quality, the strengthening of national delivery and the integration of the private sector as well as the consumer, all of which have the potential for