the dispersible tablets. A provincial manager in the Punjab government noted: “We will have to test the acceptability of these tablets in the community.” 37 A senior official in the Punjab government clearly stated that updation of new commodities in EML would not be difficult if concerned program (IRMNCH) recommends inclusion. Further, co-packaging of Zinc with ORS has already been successfully tested in the District Gujrat of Punjab, along with training of community service providers on the use of this commodity. 4.1.4.2 Transition of Commodities​ Provincial managers in Sindh revealed that UNICEF has ensured provision of supply of commodities for up to 2 years (till 2019) and has probably already arranged the required stock from its own resource. Furthermore, they stressed the need of continuous supply from regular budgeting procedures of DoH. The managers were not aware of any market availability of these commodities. It was informed that MCHIP has made some significant progress including training and provision of ARI timers, pulse oximeters relevant to Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Sindh. 4.1.5 Policy for Health Information Systems Managers pointed out that Pneumonia is not listed as a separate disease in DHIS. Similarly, it was told that Diarrhea is listed with dysentery. Managers supported the idea of including Pneumonia and Diarrhea separately in health information systems of public health facilities after a broad consultation with all stakeholders. Few managers questioned the practicality of the inclusion of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in DHIS at the BHU level. 4.1.5.1 Upgrading the Information Systems Considering the significant role of MIS system in combating mortality and morbidity due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea, KII’s were conducted with DHIS focal person of Sindh and Punjab. It was informed that in Punjab, a new PC-1 is being developed for up-grading DHIS and is expected to be finalized soon. DHIS-II will have mechanism to collect and disseminate data of disease prevalence on daily basis and generate alert for any suspected disease out-break/epidemic to ensure timely response. Also it will have provision for data sharing at district, provincial, Federal level and inter-provincial level. Moreover, it will integrate MIS systems of all vertical programs as currently it is only integrated with IRMNCH. Furthermore, it was shared that it has been approved to update the DHIS and MIS of LHWs to reflect the new commodities. This change will report the stock outs of Amoxicillin DT and Zinc DT in the DHIS. The recording and