and discussions with personnel from the health department in Quetta revealed that their healthcare system is relatively less developed than those in other provinces. According to the respondents, political commitment and willingness towards refining the health system exists, however, the capacity and ability to implement the improvements is missing. Public sector coverage is less than 50% in the province, yet FPAP and PPA play an active role in providing support for the private sector. Political instability has been a major impediment in getting external support in the province. Thus, there is also a lack of donor and development partners’ activities in the province. There isn’t any robust monitoring mechanism for health related interventions and hence no platform to oversee the healthcare activities. Nonetheless, it is believed that there is sufficient focus on child survival and child survival strategy does exist. Pneumonia and Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 68 diarrhea are one of the most prevalent diseases among children in the province and it is assumed that there is enough emphasis on these diseases. In the past there has been a considerable focus on these diseases, which however dwindled as the directorate of communicable disease control (CDC) gradually became defunct. Trainings for healthcare providers related to child survival are also provided on continuous basis along with trainings on IMNCI guidelines. However, treatment of pneumonia and diarrhea is not an integral part of medical school trainings. Conversely, DHIS does contain pneumonia and diarrhea, and diarrhea and dysentery are not differentiated. Unfortunately DHIS is not used in the decision making process nor is the data analyzed at the district level. Data analysis is carried at a more macro level which is the provincial level, although there is no mechanism to quantify demand at this level. Essential Medicine List (EML) has been updated in 2017 in the province. DRAP is responsible for the updating and maintaining EML while Baluchistan PPRA MSD is responsible for updating the public procurement list. Supply chain management of medicines is not very efficient. District cannot procure medicines based on their needs nor is supply sufficient to meet the demand. Stock-out of commodities at health facilities is one of the major concerns. Similarly, Zinc or amoxicillin stock-out is not reported in the DHIS. Zinc sulphate is not being purchased regularly in the public procurement. Likewise, neither zinc nor low osmolarity ORS is being regularly prescribed for the treatment of diarrhea.