Monitoring Unit can be utilized to provide a great opportunity for enhancing priority of pneumonia and diarrhea and for monitoring of its implementation. Recommendation of establishing Child Survival Groups should be made mandatory upon the government. The crucial role of community health workers should be recognized and harnesses in reducing mortality and morbidity caused by pneumonia and diarrhea, hence programs like LHWs program should be further strengthened. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 189 Clinical Management Practices A general understanding was prevalent among almost all stakeholders that lack of hygiene, poor sanitation and unclean drinking water were the root causes of pneumonia and diarrhea. Concept of dispersible tablet was not popular amid stakeholders, especially among facility and pharmacy in-charges. “Tablet” was instantly perceived as a substance hard for children to swallow, hence unsuitable for their consumption. Facility in-charges underscored the importance of the LHWs in managing diarrhea and pneumonia and highlighted the need for motivating and incentivizing them. Issues including lack of funds and logistic support for training, inadequate budget for medicines and their undersupply, poor ambulance service etc. were also emphasized. There was certain level of awareness, acceptability and availability of Low Osmolarity ORS but there wasn’t much awareness or acceptability of Zinc nor were they informed about its availability and practical usage. General practitioners expressed concern over lack of access to clean drinking and that being a major cause of childhood illnesses. They were extremely enthusiastic about training sessions on pneumonia and diarrhea in near future. Pharmacy in-charges believed that placing orders for medicines was dependent upon demand, price, quality, side effects it had and the season of diseases. They assumed specialists to be more professionally competent than the GPs. They wanted government to play its role in quality control and logistics of the medicines. Parents and caretakers were aware that poor hygiene, contaminated drinking water, under nourishment and unhealthy diet, along with extreme temperature change was responsible for causing pneumonia and diarrhea. They urged the government to show more commitment towards their wellbeing and voiced their demand for clean drinking water, hygienic environment, free medication, better transport facilities to Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 190 the hospitals, availability of doctors and lesser waiting time, better infrastructures and support facilities at the hospitals etc. They mentioned that they were not adequately equipped with the required medical supplies, tools or guidelines. They were also concerned about their safety and security