and where populations have physical, mental and social well-being. It commits to high coverage of effective interventions and to reducing child mortality. The GAPPD aligns with and builds on the above initiatives, and provides a roadmap for implementation. 13 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) 5 . The Protect, Prevent and Treat framework for pneumonia and diarrhoea interventions The GAPPD envisions the various interventions for controlling pneumonia and diarrhoea in children less than five years of age as: • protecting children by establishing and promoting good health practices; • preventing children from becoming ill from pneumonia and diarrhoea by ensuring universal coverage of immunization, HIV prevention and healthy environments; • treating children who are ill from pneumonia and diarrhoea with appropriate treatment. The Protect, Prevent and Treat framework integrates proven effective interventions as shown in Figure 3. These measures should be implemented as part of an integrated package of effective, feasible and affordable interventions for child survival, targeting the most vulnerable populations. When developing action plans, countries will need to select priority interventions based on local context. For instance, in settings with high mortality from pneumonia and diarrhoea, interventions that will reduce mortality most rapidly should be prioritized, alongside investments in longterm, sustainable measures, such as reliable piped safe drinking-water and sanitation services. When selecting and implementing interventions, all relevant sectors, including water, environment and energy, need to be involved and interventions need to be planned and implemented in a coordinated manner. Establishing better linkages between existing programmes can lead to synergies and efficiencies that will maximize the benefits. The proposed interventions are not new, but implementing them more effectively will require greater coordination and refinement. This plan brings together interventions presented in earlier frameworks and contains some novel approaches. It also identifies new opportunities, especially in the intersectoral areas of policy. It does not intend to supplant existing programmes and approaches, such as Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) or integrated community case management (iCCM), nor approaches that conceptualise along the continuum of care. As evidence evolves, this framework can incorporate new interventions and new ways of implementing. Some “new” strategies are already being implemented, including the use of community groups and vendors; the application of evidencebased behaviour change techniques and social marketing approaches; and the use of mobile technologies to collect data, prioritize treatment and promote health behaviour change.