a few LHWs reported being assigned additional area to cover. The women were not expected to venture outside these bounds, except during additional activities like Polio campaigns, during which, the state bore the transportation expenses. Treating Diarrhea and Pneumonia Diarrhea presented itself as a problem throughout, with approximately 6-8 reported cases each month in all sample areas. Tando Mohammad Khan in Sindh especially, seemed to be undergoing an epidemic of sorts with 65% of all homes housing a patient. Pneumonia proved to be less alarming, only rising during the winter seasons, and only claiming an average of 3-4 victims each month. The LHWs generally seemed to be knowledgeable about the signs and symptoms of the diseases, and could easily diagnose patients using the department’s issued guidelines and handbooks. The LHWs stated that their experience also played a crucial role in quick and effective diagnosis and treatment of their patients. However, despite being able to diagnose cases, they neither had the authority nor the equipment to treat severe case. Consequently, their role did not extend beyond basic first aid and making referrals to health facilities. Pneumonia cases were immediately referred to the nearest health center Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 106 along with Panadol tablets and instructions to protect the patient from the cold. Mild diarrhea was treated with a consecutive dosage of zinc followed by ORS but moderatesevere cases were also referred. In outbreak situations, these patients were referred on an emergency basis. The LHW mentioned that handling such cases wasn’t that much of a problem. Nonetheless, increased training sessions and provision of necessary equipment would allow them to deal with such cases instead of referring them to a higher health authority. Supplies and Equipment Most the LHWs seemed to be miserably underequipped and undersupplied. Quite a few did not have access to the WHO guidelines; charts or posters, and none had access to the supporting audiovisual material. Medical supply was also mostly lacking in the majority of the districts with the health workers only being provided ORS and small amounts of zinc for diarrhea patients and nothing for pneumonia. The dismal situation left the LHWs largely unprepared to counter cases effectively. Things seemed to be considerably better in Tando Mohammad Khan, which presented a stark contrast with the other Sindh districts. The LHWs had access to multiple forms of treatment protocol and referral guidelines like charts, posters and booklets,