LSAT Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs 1 How often do personnel at the following levels communicate? b. The Regional-level logistics staff with staff from the next level below (e.g. district) (If never=0 = N, otherwise 0.5=Y) Never / Weekly / Monthly / Quarterly / Annually 0.5 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y In all the provinces and districts, it was observed that there were no routine meetings of the logistics staff, and the method of communication is through official letters or reports. In Punjab, Specialized healthcare hospitals were linked through online computerized software, which was updating the stock level at real time. Rest of the public health facilities submits its report on monthly basis. Annually, every district submit its forecasted medicines quantities c. District-level logistics staff with the service delivery point Never / Weekly / Monthly / Quarterly / Annually 0.5 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y NA Y Y Y Y Y NA Y Y Y If never to question 1 a–c, skip to question 3. 2 Describe what is done in this During the meetings, the instructions in form of official letters from higher level to the lower level logistics staff, and their SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 119 indicators LSAT Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs communication? responsibilities was normally shared. Updates of budget release, medicines procurement plan, any new instruction, change in law or reporting mechanisms were shared in the routine meeting. 3 Is there a supervision system that covers logistics activities? Monitoring of tracer elements at BHUs and RHC through MEAs facilitate the physical count of medicines and the online software of DHQ facilitate the inventory management in Punjab, the reports of stock out status shared in DHIS reports in all the provinces will facilitate the availability of the essential medicines. 4 How often supervision is conducted at the service delivery points? In all public health facilities, apart from the external monitoring or reporting by MEAs, the health facility in-charge is responsible for first level