a joint accountability framework. A key component of this study was to conduct a pharmaceutical manufacturing feasibility for the local production of updated commodities, while taking into consideration market forces and the potential demand. The landscape analysis encompasses all levels from policy to the end user at community level by assessing the factors influencing policy translation and commodity access that will lead to reduction in the disease burden. The study further aimed at exploring the opportunities for engaging pharmaceutical companies and other relevant stakeholders for manufacturing and provision of updated pneumonia and diarrhea related commodities in Pakistan. The landscape analysis is based on the following comprehensive conceptual framework, adapted from problem-driven frameworks of World Bank and Overseas Development Institute. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 6 Figure 3: Research Framework of Landscape Analysis Aims and Objectives The goal of this baseline landscape analysis study was to provide insight on barriers and facilitators to policy translation and commodity access in the public and private sectors at national and provincial levels. The audience of the research would I n t e r a c t i o n Prescription (What can be done?) 2a Policy and Institutional level diagnosis – Gap Analysis 1 2 3 Key question  What actions can be proposed to support policy translation and commodity access? Key question: Who are the driving (facilitators) and resisting (barriers) forces influencing policy translation and commodity access? What are the gaps in existing policies relevant to Child Survival strategies with regards to GAPPD? What are the gaps in availability of commodities (equipment and medicines) and treatment approaches? Analysis of  Policy level Gaps  Institutions level Gaps Facility Readiness for diarrhea and pneumonia ▪ Availability of commodities ▪ Prescribing behaviors and treatment approaches ▪ Reporting indicators on pneumonia and diarrhea within DHIS 2b Stakeholders' Mapping & Engagement Analysis Analysis of  Key stakeholders (actors/players)  Ways of engagement with these stakeholders Analysis of  Potential processes leading to change  Policy options and approaches for change Recommending theory of change to facilitate desired change through Problem Identification Reflection  Why is there a gap in translation of policies to ensure commodity access related to diarrhea and pneumonia in the public and private sectors at federal and provincial level (Punjab and Sindh provinces)? Key Question Barriers and facilitators Political economy dimensions Escape hatches Policy and institutional level factors Theories of Change a) b) c)