logistic and procurement system, budgeting and role of media) ensued in practical implementation of child survival policies. A senior provincial manager described the CSG/TWG as “a think tank to the government on child mortality”. Midterm Evaluation Report 38 4.1.2 Revision of IMNCI Guidelines and Manuals A key action proposed in the accountability framework of the project was to update and reduce the number of days for in-service abridged IMNCI training manuals to six days from 11 days, with an enhanced focus on management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Various concrete steps were taken by the relevant stakeholders under the stewardship of Federal Ministry and supported by Provincial Health Departments to update the IMNCI manuals. At MoNHSR&C, national consultant was hired in consultation with WHO to help draft the revised IMNCI training manuals so that they are aligned with Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPDD) and WHO updated recommendations. As a result, key development partners and stakeholders, including WHO, UNFPA, USAID, DFID, Agha Khan University, and other NGOs and academic institution worked closely to revise and update IMNCI guidelines. In this regard, a series of consultative meetings under the supervision of MoNHSR&C and respective Health Departments, development partners and key decision makers were organized for seeking technical inputs and consensus-building during the drafting of IMNCI manuals. This effort has been lead by the WHO and based on the findings from the sixteen controlled trials on updated IMNCI conducted in nineteen countries. Meanwhile, the pre-service and community IMNCI components were also drafted and being reviewed by UNICEF/ROSA and WHO/EMRO team at the time of MTE. They are now nearing finalization to be ready for use in the respective trainings. UNICEF provided technical assistance for the development of these new training guidelines; while all the stakeholders agreed to undergo trainings with the in-service IMNCI six-day abridged course. The abridged course underwent pilot trials and was finally endorsed by National Taskforce for IMNCI in 2017. The IMNCI package was disseminated after its notification by the MONHSR&C in 2108. Federal Manager highlighting the significance of abridge version of IMNCI stated, “IMNCI has been reduced from 11 days to six day abridge course with an enhanced focus on management of pneumonia and diarrhea.” Sindh government has trained six batches on in-service IMNCI guidelines with support from UNICEF and WHO and pre-service IMNCI guidelines are being made a part of curriculum and examination in medical universities.