1,000 live births. This explains that one of the 11 Pakistani children does not survive to his fifth birthday. Acute respiratory infections (ARIs) and dehydration caused by severe Diarrhea are major causes of childhood mortality in Pakistan. Every year, approximately 91,000 children die from Pneumonia and 53,300 children death is caused due to Diarrhea. In total, Diarrhea, Pneumonia, collectively becomes the major cause of death among children in Pakistan4. According to Demographic Health Survey of Pakistan 2012-13, a less number of children are receiving appropriate treatment: only 38% of children suffering from Diarrhea receive adequate treatment with Oral Rehydration Solution (ORS) and only 1.5% receives Zinc; only half of children suffering from Pneumonia receive an appropriate antibiotic. Statistically, one out of nine children suffering from Diarrhea receives no treatment, and 59% receive no treatment for Pneumonia. The prevention of these illnesses; nevertheless, is ideal but it is critical to treat them correctly and timely. Hence, the situation requires a focused revision of the high-level policies; strengthening the training and knowledge of the health care providers, supporting production and procurement of relevant commodities, and improving the supply and logistics systems to track commodity stock and utilization. This study is a corollary to the study on “Budgetary gap analysis of Diarrhea and Pneumonia commodities at provincial/region level”. 2Pakistan Bureau of Statistics Government of Pakistan 2017. http://www.pbscensus.gov.pk/ 3Reproductive, maternal, newborn, and child health in Pakistan: challenges and opportunities: Health Transitions in Pakistan, The Lancet Volume 381, No. 9884, p2207-2218, 22 June 2013 4Interventions to address deaths from childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea equitably: what works and at what cost? The Lancet, Volume 381, No. 9875, p. 1417-1429, 20 April 2013. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 18 2.4 Objectives The objectives of the analysis are as follows: ■ Review the existing supply management system at National, Provincial, District and Sub district levels. ■ To analyze the current supplies logistic system for Pneumonia and Diarrhea management, through in-depth situation analysis. For the public sector health facilities and the vertical programs dealing in management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia. ■ To consult with key opinion leaders decision makers and other stake holders to discuss the existing logistic systems for the procurement and distribution of Pneumonia and Diarrhea medicines within the country especially in Sindh and Punjab provinces. ■ To give practical and logical recommendations to the stakeholders on how to upgrade logistic management information system (LMIS); that