emphasized this need, “… people should also have some awareness about usage and usefulness of such medicine...medical reps should suggest pharmaceutical companies to make such medicine in DTs given their usefulness in treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea.” Such awareness would also be beneficial for over the counter sales. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab assumed that over the counter sale of DTs would rise, if their prescriptions increase. He asserted, “If doctors prescribe such form and quality of medicine regularly, it will not only promote such medicine by increasing its demand and supply but will also increase over the counter sales of our pharmacies.” Syrup versus DT – A general inclination among the pharmacy in-charges was towards the syrup. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab communicated that, “As per our experience, patients prefer syrup over dispersible tablet form... In very rare cases, patients prefer dispersible tablet form.” However, there were many factors that effected this decision making process of the customers according to the pharmacy incharges. Faith in the Doctor – Most of the pharmacy in-charges were of the opinion that customers did not have any particular preference for syrup or DT. They believed that the clients were not well informed or well educated to make a decision on their own and blindly followed whatever was prescribed by the doctor. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab mentioned, “Client has no say or awareness regarding the medicine, Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 102 they go with the form that is prescribed.” A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh said, “We don’t give any medicine at our own. We have both forms of medicine available. We follow whatever is mentioned on doctor’s prescription.” Cost-Effectiveness – Upon asking Pharmacy in-charges about the relative popularity of the syrup and DTs, they expressed that cost effectiveness would serve as one of the determining factors. While talking in some other context, a pharmacy in-charge from Sindh casually mentioned, “… sale of DT form will be relatively more and less costly than the syrup.” Similarly a pharmacy in-charge from Punjab was of the opinion that “… the main determining factor for patients to buy medicine is their purchasing power…” This implied that the customer would choose between syrup and DT according to the pricing. Taste/Smell as a Determinant – There was a common perception among some pharmacy in-charges that syrup had a particular taste/smell that was either preferred by children or unpopular