policy environment for child survival. It further ensures that every girl and boy has access to proven preventive and treatment measures through evidence based updated medical commodities for management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. With the help of this integrated package of high impact and good quality healthcare commodities, the project has contributed to uplift the health of marginalized children with a special focus ensuring a continuum of care from communities to health facilities. Various national and provincial policies and guidelines were updated through this project to align them with the global recommendations, including GAPPD, for the management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Status of the achievement of specific project targets and the underlying process is described for each outcome area. 4.1.1 Project Oversight and Coordination A project accountability framework was developed as part of the baselines landscape analysis. This accountability framework identified the pathways of change in strategic areas along with timelines and assigned roles and responsibilities of all the stakeholders. At the federal level, a Project Steering Committee was established, which was later merged in National RMNCAH&N TWG due to similar TORs and membership. At provincial levels, initially Child Survival Groups were notified in both Sindh and Punjab provinces. However, as a course corrective measure, the CSG of Sindh was subsumed in the MNCH Technical Working Group to avoid duplication as both had the same mandate and stakeholders participation. Through these oversight and coordination forums, government stakeholders and key development partners had been meeting regularly over the project life to review implementation and progress against the planned child survival activities. UNICEF provided the essential support throughout the project in implementation of the decisions and recommendations of these committees/groups to achieve its overarching goal of child survival. A Senior Provincial Manager described the role of CSG as, “…Before we had no platform to discuss the issues related to child survival, CSG are of immense significance in uniting all relevant stakeholders. CSG’s are a think tank to the government on child mortality.” The support in implementing the joint accountability framework in its strategic areas (policy change, updates to clinical management practices, strengthened logistic and procurement system, budgeting and role of media) ensued in practical implementation of child survival policies. A senior provincial manager described the CSG/TWG as “a think tank to the government on child mortality”. Midterm Evaluation Report 38 4.1.2 Revision of IMNCI Guidelines and Manuals A key action proposed in