Pneumonia and Diarrhea prescriptions having updated commodities prescribed The reason for not prescribing Zinc DT was either its unavailability at the health facility (27.1%) or the prescribing behaviour of the healthcare provider (72.9%). The reason for not prescribing Amoxicillin DT was mainly its unavailability at the health facility (75.0%) whereas one fourth of the healthcare providers preferred the prescription of syrup despite its availability at the health facilities. Figure 8: Underlying reasons for not prescribing updated commodities There was a stark contrast between the awareness and availability of DTs in public and private sector. Apart from issues of stock outs and low supply, facility in-charges and LHWs were aware of DTs and their benefits. On the contrary, some GPs were not even familiar with them, leave aside their availability. Few also said that there isn’t any demand for DTs as they don’t get any prescriptions with them. A GP in the focus group discussion mentioned, “If this type of provision is handed over to private sector, then the results will be better. We have heard about the DT from you for the first time. UNICEF should involve the private healthcare providers for the use of DT.” 42.2% 66.9% 28.4% 23.5% 100.0% 3.8% 48.4% 54.5% 38.0% Prescription of Zinc DT in Childhood Diarrhea Prescription of LoORS in Childhood Diarrhea Prescription of Amoxicillin DT in Childhood Pneumonia Total Punjab Sindh 75.0% 25.0% 27.1% 72.9% 22.2% 77.8% Non-availability at the health facility Gaps in prescribing behaviours of service providers Zinc DT Amoxicillin DT LoORS Midterm Evaluation Report 60 This clearly shows that GPs felt left out of the system. They also were keen on attending trainings but most of them shared that they were unfortunately not provided any. A provincial respondent also supported this notion and asserted that, “Private sector needs to be persuaded and incentivized for the production of DTs commodities.” Finding: Childhood P&D management practices have improved through introduction of updated commodities. All stakeholders were unanimous that introduction of new commodities was a great initiative to improve Pneumonia and Diarrhea management. Majority believed that this project has put the desired national focus on these critical childhood illnesses. However, respondents at community level discussed many areas for improvement. Mothers/care givers had an obvious preference for syrup over DT. There were also mothers who were not familiar with DTs. On the contrary, ORS sachets were popular with the mothers and vouched to their