outcomes and the potential for replication or scale up of good practices and/or innovative approaches? • Level of government ownership and donors commitment for project sustainability Primary • KIIs with Federal, Provincial, and District stakeholders • KIIs with UNICEF staff • KIIs Guides Midterm Evaluation Report 83 Annex 2: Evaluation Team Composition Evaluation Team Composition BACKSTOPPING AND ADVISORY TEAM Health Specialist Dr. Naeem uddin Mian Health Systems Experts Professor Dr. Ashraf Majrooh TECHNICAL TEAM Evaluation Expert Dr. Muhammad Adeel Alvi Research Expert Ms. Mariam Z. Malik Public Health Specialists Dr. Farooq Umer Dr. Rabia Suljuk Qualitative Research Expert Professor Dr. Rubeena Zakar Medical Anthropologist Ms. Hira Hasan Bio-Statistician Mr. Abdul Hamid Field Supervisor Mr. Saleem Shehzad FIELD TEAM Enumerators 8 females and 4 males Sociologists 5 female moderators and 5 female note-takers Midterm Evaluation Report 84 Annex 3: Ethical Review Board Certificate HML Institutional Review Board 1101 Connecticut Avenue, NW Suite 450 Washington, DC 20036 USA +1.202.753.5040 unicef@hmlirb.com www.hmlirb.com US Department of Health & Human Services, Office of Human Research Protections IRB #00001211 Research Ethics Approval 13 September 2019 Dr. Muhammad Adeel Alvi Principal Investigator c/o UNICEF MENARO Aman, Jordan RE: Ethics Review Board findings for: Midterm Evaluation of UNICEF’s Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project in Pakistan Dear Dr. Alvi, Protocols for the protection of human subjects in the above study were assessed through a research ethics review by HML Institutional Review Board on 26 August – 12 September 2019. This study’s human subjects’ protection protocols, as stated in the materials submitted, received ethics review approval. Please notify this IRB of any changes in this study’s design, risks, consent, or other human subject protection protocols. Sincerely, D. Michael Anderson, Ph.D., MPH Chair & Human Subjects Protections Director, HML IRB cc: Shamshad Begum, Penelope Lantz, JD Midterm Evaluation Report 85 Annex 4: Case Studies Midterm Evaluation Report 86 Midterm Evaluation Report 87 Midterm Evaluation Report 88 CONCLUSION It is established fact that DTs are more eﬃcient than syrup in terms of their preparation, similar plasma concentration, dosage, palatability, packaging, storage, handling, logistics and cost. The inclusion of DTs in essential medicines lists, procurement lists and Minimum Service Delivery Packages (MSDPs) are all contributing substantially in achieving the goal of healthy children and their survival in Pakistan. UNICEF’s approach to promote and advocate for use of DTs in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea are eventually expected to facilitate decline in childhood morbidity and