like UNICEF to implement strategies to enhance child survival in the province. 4.1.10 KP: Perspective of the Province Interviews and discussions with personnel from the health department in KP revealed that the province has a single point agenda to achieve Universal Health Coverage. Department of Health is committed to cover 69 Million populations through Sehat Insaaf Program, a social health insurance model. Just like in Baluchistan, healthcare officials in KP showed eagerness in supporting a landscape analysis in the province and also in developing and implementing child survival strategies. They were also looking forward to collaborate with development partners in order to combat Pneumonia and Diarrhea in the province. Their project-based work is integrated through support from DFID including for health programs like MNCH, LHW, Nutrition and EPI. Disbursement of 42 funds from the district is quite a challenge. Funds are transferred to the districts through PFC and each district then releases only 11% of total budget to cater for health operational expenditures. EML has been updated in 2017. Department of Health has notified ‘very essential list of medicines for MNCH’ to include LO ORS, Zinc DT and preferably Amoxil DT. In case if they are not included in MCC list, the districts are instructed to procure them through local purchase following KPPRA rules. On the contrary, MHSDP includes these commodities, but not in DT form. According to DLIs, LHWs should have Zinc and Amoxicillin for the management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia. Low Osmolarity ORS is also being procured and provided with health facilities. Summary of Findings from Policy Environment Analysis • Advocacy needs to be done at the highest level because child deaths due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea don’t create the necessary political push • Government of Sindh has drafted first Child Health Strategy which focuses on necessary interventions at the strategic level • Provincial Health Sector Strategy of Punjab lacks an emphatic focus on Child survival • No Child Survival Group was found at the Federal Level • Recommendations of the CSG need to be made incumbent upon the government. • LHWs have a very important role in reducing mortality and morbidity due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea • Sindh has evidence based medicine cost estimation while Punjab has no such procedure • Sindh has already included the Amoxicillin and Zinc in the EML with the word “preferred” • Essential Medicine Lists at the Federal and Punjab level contain