been informed that the provincial government is struggling to appoint relevant personnel in these authorities. Till the full appointment of required staff members, the management of the budget, the procurements, are required reporting is likely to suffer. 3.6.3. Balochistan Province 1. While the budget is allocated to DDOs in the districts, the actual procurement is undertaken by the Medical Stores Depot (MSD). This means that the funds are reappropriated (the powers of re-appropriation of funds from one entity to another lies with the Finance Department) from all the DDOs to the MSD during the year. Only after this process and the process of funds release, can the MSD undertake procurements. It is reported that normally the first procurement order is made in February / March each year. Since the funds have to be used by 30th June each year, this leaves less time to finalise all processes. 2. The Finance Department compiles the budget (on the recurrent side) on behalf of health department. This means that what is actually required at the district level, their priorities, and the changes to incremental budget, are not accommodated. 3.6.4. Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province Information of quantities of procurement are not available with the health department at the time of budget formulation. Hence, largely the incremental budget mechanism is applied to formulate central rate contract. 3.6.5. FATA Secretariat Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) Secretariat undertakes procurement of medicines through the non-development as well as development budget. There is a project (of Annual Development Programme) through which amounts are spent to procure medicines in the Agencies and Frontier Regions. The funds releases through development budgets are dependent on releases made by the Planning Commission at the Federal level 21 and sub-divided into projects by FATA Secretariat. There are therefore, high chances of delays in budgetary funds releases and procurements. 3.7. Use of budget and the system of procurement During key informant interviews, it was noted that different types of procurement models are in place in different provinces. The following table summarises the information obtained: Table 15: Procurement budget at different tiers of the Government Federal / Provincial Procurement Authority Non-Development budget for Procurement of Medicines at primary and secondary level Sindh Decentral (rates fixed through Central Rate Contract) From 2016-17 onwards, the budget is made available at the Divisional level Entity level Where provision of health services is outsourced, each individual entity is authorised to undertake