in the private sector. Furthermore, the role of nascent healthcare commissions needs to be discussed for the required change in the prescribing behaviour. Finally, pharmaceutical firms can play a very important role in changing prescribing behaviour of healthcare providers in the private sector. They have the ability to generate necessary pressure required to bring change in prescribing behaviours. Changing prescribing behaviour of physicians will require a synergy from different players. Change in the prescribing behaviour in government sector will require a strong training mechanism. At provincial level, health departments strongly rely on inputs from the provincial MNCH programs (IRMNCH in Punjab) for training and other related matters. Though the provincial program don’t have strong sanctions mechanism to implement technical inputs but still relationship is strong enough to implement the desired interventions. Change in prescribing behaviour in private sector requires a multi-pronged strategy and different stakeholders. It requires involving healthcare commission, professional bodies of healthcare providers, pharmaceutical corporations and some other relevant factors. This interaction and relationship patterns represent a certain challenge. Private sector represents a huge share of the health system. However, there are no concrete accountability patterns for interventions in private sector. For example Punjab healthcare Commission has managed to register more than 50% of private healthcare establishments. Now it’s the time for PHC to take actions for ensuring compliance of standards. Following recommendations are proposed to fast-track achievement of the outcome 1. It is imperative that the health department takes a strong joint ownership with the MNCH program for the implementation of this project. A strong advocacy must be conducted simultaneously with the both MNCH program and the health department. The inputs from the MNCH program regarding the IMNCI training, change of curriculum must be implemented by the Health Departments. It is therefore imperative that the health department must take a joint ownership to make sure that trainings are in place. 2. It is recommended to take on board the academic institutions to impart training related to Pneumonia and Diarrhea to every medical student in a mandatory way. 3. Changing prescribing behaviour of the medical officers working in the public sector will require strong coordinated efforts. Health department will impart trainings at two levels. Before the induction of every 100 medical officer, there should be a training program which comprehensively addresses the training needs of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and then a refresher is conducted after every two years.