cohort data of 1998 was applied to estimated population of 2016. Since provisional 2017 census numbers are being challenged by different governments, it is not clear if these numbers will remain the same in the future. Hence, above two methods have been used. 3. To estimate disease burden of diarrhoea and pneumonia in under 5 children, data from PDHS 2012-13 was used. 4. The following types of data for children under 5 were used from the above surveys: a. Diarrhoea: ▪ % of children with diarrhoea incidence ▪ % of children with incidence of diarrhoea with blood ▪ % of children sought treatment from public and private health providers ▪ % of children who did not receive any treatment ▪ % of children who were provided with ORS and Zinc supplements ▪ % of children who were provided ORS and Zinc by public sector health providers b. Pneumonia: ▪ % of children with symptoms ▪ % of children sought treatment from public and private health providers 7 ▪ % of children who were provided with antibiotics ▪ % of children who were provided antibiotics by public sector health providers. 2.4.3. Method for calculating direct and indirect costs Since the government’s budgeting and accounting system does not use the system of apportionment of costs to commodities for treatment of the two diseases, the following method has been used to estimate related labour and overhead costs: • Average pay and allowances of all government officials working in the health sector (including health departments, and health programmes) were reviewed. In addition, the number of people associated with supply chain activities (e.g. procurement planning, bidding and vendor selection, supply and distribution, storage, etc.) were estimated. • For the overhead costs, budgets of repairs and maintenance, operating expenditure and depreciation of costs of buildings, and other assets were analysed. • Based on the above, the following percentages have been used to estimate related labour and overhead costs:  Labour costs estimated at 3% of the commodity costs  Overhead costs estimated at 5% of commodity costs. 2.4.4. Method for estimating cost of private sector treatment (out of pocket expenditure) To estimate out of pocket expenditure incurred on treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia, the following method has been used: Total quantitative requirement of morbid population X (times) percentage of out of pocket expenditure as provided in National Health Accounts of 205-06 X (times) cost of commodities