diagnosis of Pneumonia? If there is any deficiency, please explain reasons for shortage of equipment. iii. How commonly antibiotics are used for treatment of Pneumonia? iiii. Have you ever heard of any dispersible (soluble in water) antibiotic tablet? If so, do you perceive any advantage of dispersible tablets over syrups? v. In your opinion, what is the perception of the community regarding use of dispersible tablets? vi. Do you think there is any role and advantage of using oxygen in treating Pneumonia? Is it being used at your facility? If not, can you explain the reasons? vii. In your opinion, how deficiencies in equipment and medicines can be addressed? viii. In case of complicated Pneumonia cases, what referral mechanisms exist for transferring these children to higher-level health facilities? 135 5. Can you please tell us how do you manage children suffering from Diarrhea at your facility? Probes: i. How do you diagnose childhood Diarrhea and do you differentiate it from dysentery? ii. Now focusing on Diarrhea, do you classify patients on the basis of severity of dehydration? If so, how? iii. What options do you have to treat childhood Diarrhea with oral medications? iiii. Is there any role of oral Zinc in its treatment? If so, what type of Zinc formulation is usually provided at your facility? v. Have you ever heard of any dispersible (soluble in water) tablets of Zinc? If so, do you perceive any advantage of dispersible tablets over syrups? vi. In your opinion, how would community take the idea of using dispersible tablets? vii. Do you think there is any advantage of using Low Osmolarity ORS compared to regular ORS in treating Diarrhea? viii. Is your facility provided with Low Osmolarity ORS? If no, please state reasons? ix. In case of complications, what referral mechanisms exist for transferring these children to higher-level health facilities? 6. Please tell us about any stock-out of aforementioned medicines that are used for treating Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Probes: i. How common are these stock-outs? Kindly comment on the medicines that suffer from stock-out more frequently. ii. How do you treat these children, when there is stock-out of medicines at the facility? iii. In your opinion, what are the reasons for these stock-outs? iiii. Do you have suggestions for ensuring un-interrupted supply of these medicines and commodities? 11. ANNEX 136 7. Now, we would like to know about the process of forecasting