DTs over syrup because syrup has smell issue and DTs are more effective.” Some of the Pharmacy in-charges were of the view that syrup was a better option because of its taste. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab expanded, “The only preferred form of medicine for children is syrup because it is easy to use and comes in different flavors like banana, strawberry etc. DTs don’t have any taste.” Tablets: Not for Children – Pharmacy in-charges who were unaware what DTs were and even a few of those who claimed to be aware about DTs, they believed that tablets were not suitable for children. It seemed that the word “tablet” prompted the notion that tablets were hard to swallow by children; hence syrup was a better choice. This perception was more prevalent in Sindh as pharmacy in-charges from this region had the following view, “The children who cannot consume tablets are given syrup.” and “Demand of syrup in children is comparatively more.” 4.2.6.4 Selecting a Pharmacy There were various considerations for customers in choosing a pharmacy as discussed by the pharmacy incharges and they believed it was customers’ personal choice as to what aspect they preferred. Most pharmacy in-charges mentioned that it was at the discretion of the customer to get medicines from wherever they wanted. They assumed that customers came to them by choice and were not referred by anyone. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab affirmed, “Patients come to our pharmacy by choice without being referred or influenced by doctors.” Another pharmacy in-charge from Punjab verified, “Neither private nor government health facility refer patients for procuring medicines to us, although we usually offer discounts as well.” A few Pharmacy in-charges mentioned the significance of pharmacy’s location and how it affected the customers’ preference and purchasing behavior. A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh explained, “There is a hospital right opposite the medical store. The patients directly go to that medical store from hospital.” A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab elaborated why he didn’t receive many prescriptions, “the reason for not receiving prescriptions … is location of my medical store, it is situated in the rural area away from the nearby BHU.” 4.2.7 Perceptions of Lady Health Workers This section is a discourse on the major overarching themes that emerged from the focus group discussions held with LHWs. They were conducted in 5 districts; 2 in Punjab and 3 in Sindh. It mainly highlights