or acceptability of Zinc nor were they informed about its availability and practical usage. General practitioners expressed concern over lack of access to clean drinking and that being a major cause of childhood illnesses. They were extremely enthusiastic about training sessions on Pneumonia and Diarrhea in near future. Pharmacy in-charges believed that placing orders for medicines was dependent upon demand, price, quality, side effects it had and the season of diseases. They assumed specialists to be more professionally competent than the GPs. They wanted government to play its role in quality control and logistics of the medicines. Parents and caretakers were aware that poor hygiene, contaminated drinking water, under nourishment and unhealthy diet, along with extreme temperature change was responsible for causing Pneumonia and Diarrhea. They urged the government to show more commitment towards their wellbeing and voiced their demand for clean drinking water, hygienic environment, free medication, better transport facilities to the hospitals, availability of doctors and lesser waiting time, better infrastructures and support facilities at the hospitals etc. They mentioned that they were not adequately equipped with the required medical supplies, tools or guidelines. They were also concerned about their safety and security while going out in the field. Conclusion & recommendations: • There is a need for consistent training regimen and an IT based case documentation system at community level. • Free sampling can be an effective tool for penetrating the market, especially for new forms of medicines like DT. • Field and community level testing prior to scale up is required to enhance acceptability of DT. • Dispersible tablets need to be named and branded differently to deal with the preconceived notion of tablets as hard to swallow substance. 8.3 PHARMACEUTICAL FEASIBILITY Role of the pharmaceutical manufacturers was deemed to be crucial in changing the prescribing behaviour of the private sector. Hence a feasibility analysis was conducted to explore the opportunities for local production of desired commodities in Pakistan and to assess the market potential of pharmaceutical industry in meeting the need of updated Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities. It was found that, presently the local industry is meeting 70% demand of all the finished products and the sector is expanding in the international market. The quality of locally manufactured drugs is regulated by the Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP), which on average takes 15-18 months to process registration of a new product. This process however