patients of Pneumonia and Diarrhea being reported to the public sector healthcare providers (both fixed and outreach staff). One of the health facility staff members told, “…target is too much and medicine is very limited”. Trainings and refresher courses/trainings play a vital role in capacity building, developing ownership of the project and in morale boosting of the implementing staff. The more frequently these trainings and refreshers are conducted the better outcomes of the project are likely to be achieved. The information is continuously pouring in day by day and updating the staff members regularly on project objectives and their achievement modalities is crucial. The analysis revealed that there is dire need and strong demand of these trainings amongst the health facility staff members. Many staff members are still not trained on project implementation and many of the trained ones received it months ago and require refresher in order to perform better. One of the staff members explained, “…We need more trainings about medicines of Pneumonia and Diarrhea”. The achievement of objectives of controlling Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Pakistan under 5 population is an uphill task and is a long and continuous process. Keeping this in mind we are rightful in saying that the current project is working good under the resolve of Government and is very much likely to be sustainable due to efforts of all the stakeholders involved. However, there are some serious challenges to be looked after carefully like budgetary allocations after the UNICEF assistance is concluded, trainings of the concerned staff members and equitable distribution of the commodities. To mitigate these challenges and cope up with them, there is viable mechanism in place, i.e., regular meetings of the federal and provincial coordination forums occur periodically and the decisions taken therein are translated into workable actions on regular basis. This process has been observed effectively during the course of the project and will be followed in future as well; many of the problems faced are already discussed and dealt with successfully through these meetings and same process will be carried on prospectively as well. The mid-term evaluation of the P&D project clearly indicates that its achievements outweigh its constraints by far, which is evidence on project being sustainable in future. Finding: The project envisages increased Government ownership and donor’s commitment for project sustainability. Sustainability of P&D project depends on its achievements and performance as perceived by the stakeholders