let participants initiate the discussion and use probes only when certain concerns are not addressed by the group. 1. What causes diarrhoea and pneumonia and what are the symptoms? o In your opinion, which preventive measures and/or habits can prevent spread of pneumonia or diarrhoeal diseases? o From which source have you received this information? o Do you undertake these actions for your child/children? o Where does your family get water from? Do you drink it directly from the source? o Where does your family (adults and children) go to the toilet? o Does your family (adults and children) wash their hands? With water only? 2. Where do most people prefer to go to seek treatment of children? What degree of influence do you think the cultural and family norms and beliefs have over the choice of treatment? o Do you use a traditional doctor / spiritual healer for child illness? o What cultural beliefs influence child illness and treatment seeking in this community? o Do you go to the health centre for child illness? o What is your opinion about the quality of the services provided by the health centre? o Do you prefer Dispersible tablets or syrup for treatment of diarrhea and pneumonia? o Do you directly go to the chemist for your child illness? o Why do you use the chemist (instead of the health centre?) 3. Where have you learnt from about child illness? o What child survival information, education and communication activities are targeted at mothers/fathers? o What measures should be taken to improve the community’s knowledge about child illness? 4. What activities do health workers (LHWs) undertake in the community regarding diarrhea and pneumonia? o Are they providing sufficient care for diarrhea and pneumonia? Midterm Evaluation Report 119 o What challenges do health workers face doing their work in the community? o How can their services be improved? 5. What are the main challenges you face in going to the health centre or accessing treatment for child illness? o What are the reasons that some families not take their child for treatment if they are ill? o Does the cost of accessing treatment sometimes prevent some families from taking the child? o What do you say about the overall quality of services? Would you like to visit this facility again for child care? o Do you have any suggestion to improve the services? 6.