these efforts, in close coordination with the Government and relevant stakeholders to ensure sustainable improvements. The project had an overarching goal to ensure that relevant national policies are in place, understood, and adhered for prevention, promotion and treatment of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. The project also focused on incorporating Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment commodities into essential medicines lists and essential health service delivery packages. Based on key recommendations of landscape analysis and feasibility studies, the project has advocated for increased resource allocation for updated commodities and has catalysed the initial stages of the commodities procurement process with government authorities and pharmaceutical manufacturers. Finding: There is empirical evidence supporting the use of updated commodities for management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea at health facilities and in the communities. Pneumonia and Diarrhea are fatal childhood illnesses requiring an integrated management approach. WHO and UNICEF initiated and conceptualized a cohesive approach for tackling Pneumonia and Diarrhea, resulting in launch of Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea in April 2013 (Qazi et al, 2015). GAPPD as a framework which emphasized on integrated approach to protect, prevent and treat both the diseases (WHO & UNICEF, 2013), EQ: How relevant and meaningful are the project objectives and activities in addressing the needs and priorities of the marginalized and vulnerable children in the project areas? Midterm Evaluation Report 43 recommended the use of essential commodities including Dispersible Tablets of Amoxicillin & Zinc DT, Low Osmolarity ORS, ARI Timers, Pulse Oximeters and Oxygen. To improve Pneumonia and Diarrhea management and services in Pakistan, UNICEF in alignment with GAPPD introduced these updated commodities through the project at appropriate levels of service delivery. UNICEF to advocate the use of and their inclusion in essential medicine list of the Government established the benefit and impact of these commodities on child survival. There is strong evidence that supports the use of these commodities for an improved management of both the childhood diseases, particularly the engagement of community level health workers for treatment of Diarrhea and Pneumonia, in terms of overcoming major barrier to access to health services (UNICEF, 2006). Zinc plays a critical role in overall health and development of infants and young children, but among children of under developed and developing countries, its deficiencies are wide spread. During Diarrheal episodes zinc further depletes therefore, replacing this important micronutrient is essential for child recovery. WHO and UNICEF recommend a daily dosage