to take place. Normally DM or EDO gives such trainings. For training on pneumonia, child specialists should be invited as trainer.” Venue & Transportation Costs Venue of the trainings and transportation to the venue was a cause of concern for most medical staff. They faced difficulty in receiving reimbursement for their allocated traveling and daily allowances (TA/DA) as mentioned by some of the facility in-charges. Lack of funding was considered the main reason for such inadequacy. A facility in-charge from Sindh criticized, “… some staff members got trainings or polio campaigns Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 78 but they said that there are so many shortcomings like time management and no TA/DA paid to the attendees.” A facility in-charge from Sindh mentioned the convenience of having the training in their health facility, “… if they arrange the training in our health facility, it will be very beneficial because the staff would be present there.” Another one from Sindh added, “If the management arranges the training at far off venues, it will be very difficult for health staff, especially LHWs, CMWs and LHSs, because the relevant department does not pay back the TA/DA ...” Initiative/Responsibility: Government versus 3rd Parties Facility in-charges seemed to be cognizant that pharmaceutical companies, donors and INGOs were more active in taking initiatives for the trainings than the government itself. Most facility in-charges reported that the training sessions were being organized by third party groups. A facility in-charge from Sindh stated, “… We received our last training in 2012. It was arranged by the NGO working for nutrition on IYCF and Breast Feeding.” Very few mentioned health department’s contribution, “Such trainings are arranged mainly by the Health Department and sometimes with other development partners; like Nestle once arranged such training for our staff.” Refresher Trainings According to multiple responses, refresher courses weren’t arranged often, and in many cases, almost never; mainly due to lack of funds and a distinct lack of interest on the government’s part. Facility in-charge from Punjab reiterated this view, “There is no trend of refresher of such trainings. The main reason of not arranging Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 79 refreshers is lack of interest on the part of the health department…” Another facility in-charge from Punjab declared, “I did not get refresher trainings. The main reasons for the lack of funding for such activities include no or poor planning and the fact