arranging Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 79 refreshers is lack of interest on the part of the health department…” Another facility in-charge from Punjab declared, “I did not get refresher trainings. The main reasons for the lack of funding for such activities include no or poor planning and the fact that refresher trainings for human resources of relevant departments are not government’s priority.” A facility in-charge from Sindh shared about the long time lapse since his last training, “I got my last training about ARI problems 4-5 years ago, but still no refresher training has been conducted due to lack of funding.” A facility in-charge from Punjab also revealed, “There are only refresher trainings on subjects like TB but I am not sure about pneumonia and diarrhea.” Protocols and Guidelines There seemed to be mixed responses about availability of protocols. Some facilities in-charges claimed that their facilities were fully equipped with charts and guidelines while others seemed to lack them entirely. There wasn’t any particular trend among provinces, or even districts; it seemed to vary on a facility-to-facility basis. Whether their facilities had access to protocols or not, all respondents conceded that protocols and guidelines were both useful and necessary to provide the best possible treatment to the patients. This was discussed by a facility in-charge from Sindh, “Such guidelines inform the diagnosis and treatment process, how to evaluate the severity and what procedure to follow for the treatment of such diseases etc.” A facility in-charge from Punjab explained about the availability and usefulness of such tools, Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 80 “Yes we have complete guidelines and protocols (like IMNCI guideline) for managing pneumonia and diarrhea among children at our facility. These guidelines taught us how to diagnose, what are the sign and symptoms, how to treat and how and when to refer to a higher health facility. These guidelines/ protocols are up to mark and completely practical.” On the contrary, there were also facilities that did not have access to such standard guidelines. A facility in-charge from Sindh described, “We have no guidelines for the diagnosis of diarrhea and pneumonia, its severity classification, management or treatment, so I cannot comments on it. These guidelines are very useful for childhood disease management.” Another one further elaborated holding the government responsible, “Guidelines or protocols about pneumonia and diarrhea are not available here. Charts are available and those are given