was highlighted by the managers in both provinces. A leading paediatrician stressed the need of pre service trainings for effective management of pneumonia and diarrhea. Furthermore, it was stressed by the experts at all levels that there is a strong need for emphasis in medical school training as well. Policy Environment Related to LHWs Managers from both the provinces agreed on the role and scope of the services of the community workers. Their role was defined to be the early diagnosis, initial management and referral of the cases. Managers stressed the need of hiring more LHWs for the coverage of uncovered areas. However, the managers stressed the importance of drawing a line between the management and referral of the cases .One prominent paediatrician noted: “Role of community health workers is very critical in the early detection, management and referral of cases. Similarly, if the complicated cases were referred by the BHU to the higher level in timely manner, then it would be of huge significance. Complicated cases have to be dealt with at the secondary and tertiary levels.” Due to their door-to-door services, Lady Health workers have a very critical role in reducing the rate of mortality and morbidity caused due to childhood diseases. As per Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 63 mandate of the program each LHW covers an area of 1200-1500 population and provide services to each household. Considering these services of LHW’s, the respondents were confident enough that they can act as a catalyst in reducing mortality and morbidity due to pneumonia and diarrhea through addressing all three components of GAPPD i.e. treat, prevent and promote. As said by a District Manager of program, “LHWs are playing multiple roles at a time which comprises prevention, first aid treatment and follow up. They give awareness to the mothers of children about hand wash, sanitation etc. LHWs role is also very critical in vaccination.” It was reported that LHW’s include Amoxicillin, Paracetamole, Zinc Sulphate and ORS as a first aid management for pneumonia and diarrhea. LHW Coverage Almost all of the managers unanimously voiced the need of reducing the households covered by the LHWs to 1000 households from the current level of 1200-1500 households for every LHW. According to them this number of households was putting strain on the performance of LHWs and was affecting the efficiency of the LHWs in delivering the services. Managers noted that the human