The enumerators and facilitators made sure that the place of interview provided privacy for the interviews and FGDs. Confidentiality: Interviewers may not discuss participants’ answers with anyone, except the supervisor when clarification was needed. Individuals’ names or other identifying information was not be linked to any responses. Safety and security of data: Hard copies such as interview notes, prints of photographs and audio recordings was kept securely in a locked cabinet that can only be accessed by agreed members of the MTE team. Soft copies in the computers were encrypted / password protected. All data will be securely kept for up till three years and then safely disposed off. Conflict of interest: Being a primary element of a staff member’s obligation to maintain integrity, independence and impartiality required, there should be no conflict of interest. No actual and potential conflicts of interests were identified for the evaluation team. Addressing Gender and Child Rights Issues: Gender equality is a human rights issue and a prerequisite for sustainable development. According to human rights principles of equality and non-discrimination, everyone is entitled to equal enjoyment of their rights and the responsibilities and opportunities that come along, regardless of their gender. In Pakistani society gender is a major organizing principles. Local traditions and culture embody values predetermining gender roles in the community. There is substantial diversity in the status of women as well as rights of the children across classes, regions, and rural/urban divide due to uneven Midterm Evaluation Report 32 socioeconomic development and the impact of tribal, feudal, and social formations on women and children's lives. This evaluation kept in consideration gender, child rights and social exclusion barriers during varied phases of evaluation including activity designing, consultations and stakeholder engagement, staff hiring and training, monitoring and was ensured in data analysis. Selection of field teams ensured gender balance. Further, during training of field teams, gender and child rights orientation was given as part of the evaluation design. Evaluation approaches and activities were revised to safeguard sensitivity in understanding gender values as well as child rights according to CRC. At large, all stages of the evaluation cycle were assessed through the lens of gender, social exclusion, child rights and equity, ensuring that it was reflected in the findings and recommendations. 3.5.2 Risks Management Risk management plan was developed, identifying events in which the team foresees numerous potential risks and constraints, which may affect the