Diarrhea by health facilities and outreach workers. 3.7 Limitations of the Evaluation This midterm evaluation carries certain limitations that affected the interpretation of the findings. The technical team took appropriate measures and used certain techniques to minimize these limitations. Attribution of the outcomes with project interventions was a key limitation. The evaluation team conducted the comparisons with the baselines studies and asking the respondents to compare the before and after comparisons of the Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project to estimate a fair level of attribution. Generalizability of the quantitative findings will not be possible as the purposive sampling was done for selection of the districts and health facilities within districts. Reliability and validity of findings could be a possible limitation as multiple teams collected data at different sites and they might have conducted the interview and discussion somewhat differently. Extensive efforts on development of questionnaires, pre-testing, actual practicing on the questionnaires and data collection tools during the training helped mitigating this limitation. Limitations of OECD/DAC Criteria due to overlapping of information among criteria could result in repetitions of findings or analysis. Evaluation team remained cognizant of this limitation during interpretation of findings. Knowledge Assessment of care providers on use of updated commodities and their level of competence was not assessed as it was beyond the scope of this evaluation. Midterm Evaluation Report 37 4. Evaluation Findings This section provides the findings of the midterm evaluation in terms of the achievement of project outcomes, involved processes and their conformance against the OECD/DAC evaluation criteria, including relevance, effectiveness, efficiency, sustainability and crosscutting areas of equity and gender equality. 4.1 Status of Project Outcomes Project outcomes pertaining to policy change, policy translation, policy implementation and knowledge management were identified at the inception of the project and later on were incorporated in the TOC, which was developed retrospectively. As part of this midterm evaluation, achievement against each outcome and areas for further improvement were assessed to propose actionable recommendations. Overall, objectives of the project were consistent with the national policies and strategic frameworks. The implementation of the project has paved way for building a dynamic policy environment for child survival. It further ensures that every girl and boy has access to proven preventive and treatment measures through evidence based updated medical commodities for management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. With the help of this integrated package of high impact and good quality healthcare commodities, the project