the role of pneumonia and diarrhea in the child mortality. The MNHSRC is responsible for notifying the Child Survival Group at the federal level. Furthermore, MNHSRC and DRAP have a central role in updating the national essential medicine list and federal drug procurement list .WHO is responsible for updating the IMNCI guidelines. These guidelines serve as a standard training material for the management of childhood illnesses. These efforts will require a supportive role from the UNICEF. It is envisaged that all these efforts will take place through the platform of Child Survival groups at the federal level. The federal level CSG will have an additional task of creating a coordination mechanism for the all the CSGs in Pakistan. It is therefore critically important that this CSG is chaired by a person that can create smooth communication channels between the provinces. Policy change in the Punjab province essentially entails putting the required strategic focus on the child mortality due to pneumonia and diarrhea. It therefore requires a Child Survival Strategy like Sindh. This strategy will help to steer the administrative and financial efforts required to address the child mortality and morbidity. Our findings suggest that Punjab has made progress on updating the essential medicine lists and the Health Information Systems. However, the implementation of these changes requires strong commitments from the key stakeholders. It is important to know that the health department in Punjab has been bifurcated into two departments i.e., Primary and Secondary healthcare department and the Specialized& Medical Education department. Child survival strategy will require inputs from the Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education department. It is Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 172 therefore imperative to include a representative from that department as well. Furthermore, it is important to note that the Punjab Government has put in a lot of efforts to strengthen and revitalize the MNCH program in the form of IRMNCH. DGHS chairs the CGS and therefore the CSG becomes an important platform for the accountability patterns required for the desired outcomes. Our findings reveal that the Child Survival group has started taking roots in the Punjab province. The CSG comprises of almost all the stakeholders and so far its decisions have not faced any hindrance from the decision makers in the province. Accountability in the context of public health is an interesting topic when it comes to Pakistan. Unlike United Kingdom or other western nations where public