in Punjab. • Need for a dedicated focal person for pneumonia and diarrhea in the office of DGHS Sindh for monitoring purposes Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 72 Management of Pneumonia & Diarrhea This section is based on qualitative data analysis of responses from various stakeholders who are involved in the management of pneumonia and diarrhea. It aims to explore the prescribing behaviors, capacity of service providers, availability of medicines and relevant medical equipment, healthcare seeking preferences and general areas of concern for each of the stakeholders. Responses of stakeholders were synthesized into coherent themes and sub-themes and ultimately organized into formal research findings. General practitioners (GPs) and pharmacy in-charges were interviewed in private sector. From public sector, at facility level, facility in-charges were interviewed and focus group discussions were conducted with lady health workers (LHWs) while at community level, parents /caregivers of sick children were interviewed. The sample focused on five districts from both Punjab and Sindh; two from Punjab (Pakpattan and Bahawalnagar) and three from Sindh (Tharparker, Shikarpur and Tando Muhammad Khan). Perceptions of Facility In-charges Diarrhea and pneumonia were reported as the most common diseases by all the facility in-charge who were interviewed. Pneumonia cases were significantly fewer as it is a seasonal disease and the survey was conducted during the warm season. A facility incharge from Punjab explained, “Diarrhea is the main childhood disease of this area and relatively more common as compared to pneumonia. Very few cases of pneumonia are reported at this facility. Diarrhea cases are reported in routine, not as epidemic.” Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 73 Many responses highlighted other health concerns that seemed to be widespread in their catchment areas, which included skin allergies, malaria, respiratory tract infections and dysentery. A detailed response came from a facility in-charge in Punjab, “Upper respiratory tract infections, skin allergies, malaria, diarrhea and pneumonia are the main childhood diseases in my catchment area. There are almost 50% children suffering from upper respiratory tract infections, 15% suffering from skin allergies and 20% are suffering from diarrhea, (they) are brought to this facility. The cases of pneumonia are very rare these days.” Poor standard of living and low literacy rates were held responsible by the facility incharges for the current situation. Most patients came from poor households; many did not have access to basic facilities, with lack of cleanliness being the biggest concern. They lived in dismal