diseases like pneumonia and diarrhea led to many revelations. In the post devolution scenario, the provincial health sector strategies have a main guiding role for the areas related to service delivery. Most of the provincial health sector strategies are on the verge of completing the terms for which they were drafted and will be reviewed in the next year. This provides an opportunity to incorporate the necessary changes required to enhance the focus on morbidity and mortality in children due to pneumonia and diarrhea. Data is not analyzed at the district level and the same time, validity and reliability of data gathered from districts, received at the highest point is questionable. Provincial Health Sector Strategy of Punjab lacks an emphatic focus on child survival whereas Government of Sindh has drafted first Child Health Strategy which focuses on necessary interventions at the strategic level. No child survival groups were found to be in existence at the federal level. Sindh has evidence based medicine cost estimation while Punjab does not have any such procedure. Sindh has already included the Amoxicillin and Zinc in the EML with the word “preferred.” On the contrary EML at the Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 188 federal level and in the province of Punjab contain Amoxicillin and Zinc in the “Solid Oral Dosage Form.” Sindh and Punjab have already incorporated the dispersible tablets (DTs) in the provincial essential medicine lists and the process of updating the IMNCI guidelines has also been initiated. USAID USP-PQM is assisting in promoting the quality of medicines in Pakistan. Sindh and Punjab have already made progress in updating the health information systems which reflect the global recommendations and also LHW MIS. However, some issues like the mention of pneumonia in the health information systems, still needs to be added. Conclusion & recommendations: There is a critical need for advocacy at policy level to raise priority of pneumonia and diarrhea as diseases causing high mortality and morbidity at the national level. The office of DGHS should have a dedicated focal person for pneumonia and diarrhea for monitoring purposes. Forums like Chief Minister Special Monitoring Unit can be utilized to provide a great opportunity for enhancing priority of pneumonia and diarrhea and for monitoring of its implementation. Recommendation of establishing Child Survival Groups should be made mandatory upon the government. The crucial role of community health workers should be recognized and harnesses in reducing