(Bhutta & Hafeez). PDHS results on IMR clearly show that differences in equity of care exist between male and females gender disparities. Moreover, in the absence of mother as a primary caregiver, grandmothers are seen to be secondary caregivers (UNICEF, 2018). Knowledge of these elderly members is considered to be more reliable and acceptable on the basis of prior experience in raising children. However, limited exposure to new information and practices for treating Pneumonia and Diarrhea is seen as a disadvantage (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005). 2.2.3 Cultural Perceptions Across the developing world, females mostly suffer a great deal due to gender discrimination in child rearing, nutrition, healthcare seeking and education. A common practice in rural areas is to give more attention to a son when he is unwell as compared to a daughter and consequently taking the son to a formal facility while the daughter is given home remedies or taken to traditional healers. However, the extent and magnitude of gender discrimination varies by geographical, socio-economic, and demographic characteristics of the mother. Cultural perceptions and behavior around Pneumonia and Diarrheal diseases amongst caregivers of children under 5, impacts preventive practices, care seeking attitudes and management of these illnesses. Women are considered as primary caregivers for treating children with these illnesses. Low or lack of any formal education amongst a majority of these women results in delayed diagnosis which in turn leads to unnecessary delay in care seeking and low compliance for these illnesses (Bhutta & Hafeez, 2015). Women also face challenges with regards to financial Midterm Evaluation Report 21 empowerment. Males are seen to play a key role in final decisions including when and where to seek treatment resulting in delayed care seeking (Fatimi & Van, 2002). 2.3 BMGF & Programme for Child Survival With the partnership of UNICEF and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF), the project “Accelerating Policy Change, Translation and Implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Commodities in Pakistan”, has been established and is supposed to be implemented from 2016 to 2020. The project is designed to improve the diagnosis, treatment as well as prevention of Diarrhea and Pneumonia in Pakistan. Working in close collaboration of relevant stakeholders and Government of Pakistan, the overall purpose of this project is to contribute to the efforts to increase child survival in Pakistan, particularly by strengthening policy solutions for better diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in girls and boys