resulting in implementation in 10 districts across Pakistan only. Another key intervention in this regard, has been the initiation of Child Survival and Health Grants Program (CSHGP) introduced with an implementation framework for community case management to improve the community care-seeking behavior, however its encouraging impact is yet to be achieved. After the 2010 devolution, provincial health sector strategies of both Sindh and Punjab had emphasis on improving child health under the RMNCH and Nutrition initiatives. Moreover, overall system actions required for enhanced child health care and to reduce mortality and morbidity formed part of strategies. However, in spite of being aware that Diarrhea and Pneumonia are major killers of children, it has been seen that no defined 107 child health policy existed at any governance level, although Government of Sindh has taken the lead and drafted ‘New Born Survival Strategy’, which is in process of being implemented. The baseline landscape analysis found that both Sindh and Punjab’s Essential Medicine Lists aligned with the WHO and UNICEF recommended Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities, however, the replacement of suspension with the dispersible tablets still needs to be supported with robust arguments for implementation purposes. It was pointed out that once the local pharmaceutical manufacturers start producing the dispersible tablets, it would create a positive pressure on the public and private sector. The policy analysis reflects that recently the focus on the health has increased at the political level. Specifically, Punjab has improved the health budget and the health department has been bifurcated into two departments for an efficient service delivery. Conversely, both Punjab and Sindh have created District Action Plans and District Operational Plans, addressing the child health services, which also included management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Considering connectivity of the provincial management with the district health offices, plays a key role in operationalizing efforts and interventions aimed at policy translation, recent IT based communication platforms supported by UNICEF and PITB were found out to be major pushing force in increasing the communication between the stakeholders. The analysis revealed that there is no evidence-based drug quantification and forecasting system found in Punjab, resulting in lack of supply on the basis of actual demand. However, Sindh has recently developed and implemented an evidence-based system that generates the demand on need. Previously the lack of focus on both Pneumonia and Diarrhea could be gauged from the fact that Pneumonia was not listed as a