for the procurement and distribution of Pneumonia and Diarrhea medicines within the country especially in Sindh and Punjab provinces. • To give practical and logical recommendations to the stakeholders on how updated logistic management information system (LMIS) can be introduced in supply chain management for forecasting, procurement, inventory management, warehousing and distribution and also on linking of revised DHIS tools with LMIS. 1.4 Methodology The methodology of assessment is based on mixed analysis that is quantitative and qualitative. The quantitative analysis is established on the data derived from the Logistics System Assessment Tool (LSAT) developed by USAID Deliver Project and recommended by WHO for the assessment of logistics / supply chain management of medicines. However, the qualitative analysis was based on the information gathered through semi structured in-depth interviews. 1.5 Key Findings In accordance with the scope of work for this assessment, the pharmaceutical LSAT was used to obtain baseline data for the indicators. The data collected for selected indicators is presented in various tables while the key findings are as follows; 1. All the Provincial procurement cells have facilitated the districts by providing central rate contract with prequalified firms except in Balochistan. The health SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 10 department of Balochistan has central procurement of medicines. WHO recommended method of forecasting was not implemented in provinces. 2. The teaching hospitals (health facilities) where computerized inventory management software were implemented under the supervision of SHC&ME have shown better result in inventory management based on LSAT assessment i.e. 92%, comparing with DHQ hospitals of Sindh, which were not facilitated with such interventions, have shown 52% results only. 3. In Sindh in LHW-LMIS it has been observed, where the definition of SCMS has been modified like the definition of availability of stock was “% of LHW who did not have logistics item available” , definition of opening stock balance was “% of LHW who did not have opening balance available for logistic item”. Even the DHIS does not give the clear picture of the stock status of tracer elements. Furthermore, the LMIS from health facilities was not web based. The LMIS program of LHWs does not report the stock status of Amoxicillin suspension and Zinc supplement. 4. In the public health supply chain system, frequent stock outs were reported. Medicines forecasting was based on consumption methodology which does not fulfill WHO recommendations. Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, however, has adopted mix method