in the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness handbook.33 Diagnosis is based on clinical symptoms, including the extent of dehydration, the type of diarrhoea exhibited, whether blood is visible in the stool, and the duration of the diarrhoea episode. Treatment regimens diﬀer based on the outcomes of this clinical assessment. Microbiological culture and microscopy are not necessary to diagnose diarrhoea and initiate treatment, even in high-income countries, although these tools can help identify speciﬁc pathogens for outbreak investigations. It is important that caregivers recognize the symptoms that require immediate attention from appropriate health personnel, including trained community health workers. These symptoms include dehydration, blood in the stool, profuse and persistent diarrhoea and repeated vomiting. How is diarrhoea treated? The latest recommendations for treating childhood diarrhoea in the developing world are set out in a UNICEF and WHO joint statement34 issued in 2004. These interventions are proven, aﬀordable and relatively straightforward to implement. Since the 1970s, oral rehydration therapy has been the cornerstone of treatment programmes to prevent life-threatening dehydration associated with diarrhoea (Box 5). Fluid replacement should begin at home and be administered by the caregiver at the start of the diarrhoea episode. A solution made from oral rehydration salts (ORS) is the ‘gold standard’ of oral rehydration therapy, and a new formula has been developed (known as low-osmolarity ORS) that improves overall outcomes when compared to the original version (Box 6). UNICEF and WHO recommend that all children with diarrhoea have access to this new ORS formula; making it widely available to children in need will require innovative delivery strategies. When ORS are not available, other ﬂuids will also work to prevent dehydration among children with diarrhoea, although they are not as eﬀective in treating children who have become dehydrated. Such ﬂuids (which many countries have designated as ‘recommended homemade ﬂuids’) can be For more than two decades, WHO and UNICEF recommended a single ORS formula for treating all types of diarrhoea among all age groups. During this time, researchers also worked to improve the formula to provide additional clinical beneﬁts to patients. Particularly important, in addition to preventing dehydration, was making ORS more acceptable to caregivers who sought to reduce their child’s diarrhoea symptoms. In 2004, WHO and UNICEF began recommending that countries use and manufacture a new ORS formula (known as low-osmolarity ORS) to treat all types of diarrhoea among all age groups. This improved formula was shown