| 10% NCDs | 4% Injuries | 5% Malaria | 7% HIV/AIDS | 2% Measles | 1% Thirty-five percent of deaths in children less than five years of age are associated with malnutrition.’ Sources: WHO Global Health Observatory (httt://www.who.int/gho/child_health/ en/index.html) and ‘Black R et al. Lancet, 2008, 371:243-260 (5, 6) Most child deaths from pneumonia and diarrhoea occur in the world’s poorest regions – with nearly 90% in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. Children who are poor, hungry and living in remote areas are most likely to be visited by these “forgotten killers”. The burden that pneumonia and diarrhoea place on families and health systems in low-resource countries further exacerbates existing inequalities. Despite this heavy loss of young life, and the simplicity and costeffectiveness of necessary interventions, relatively few global resources are dedicated to tackling pneumonia and diarrhoea. Public health investment in the prevention and control of these diseases is not commensurate with the magnitude of the problem (7). The situation described in Pneumonia: The forgotten killer (8) and Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done (9) is beginning to change, but much work remains, as documented in Pneumonia and diarrhoea: Tackling the deadliest diseases for the world’s poorest children (10). The solutions to tackling pneumonia and diarrhoea do not require major advances in technology. Proven interventions exist. Children are dying because services are provided piecemeal and those most at risk are not being reached. Many of the causes and solutions for childhood pneumonia and diarrhoea are inter-related, and thus, this plan proposes an innovative approach for integrating the planning, delivery and monitoring of health interventions for these two diseases. 2 . Pneumonia and diarrhoea and the Millennium Development Goals At the Millennium Summit in 2000, the United Nations Member States committed to a number of global goals for 2015, some of which overlap with efforts to reduce the burden of pneumonia and diarrhoea. These include: • MDG 4 – to reduce the under-5 mortality rate by two thirds; • MDG 7, Target 10 – to halve the proportion of people without sustainable access to safe drinking-water and basic sanitation. For all goals, the baseline was set at 1990. Although substantial progress has been made, MDG 4 can only be achieved by an intensified effort to reduce pneumonia and diarrhoea deaths over the next two years. If global action is not accelerated and sustained over time,