an increased number of large protracted outbreaks, recurring global food and nutrition crises and rapid and unplanned urbanization, programmes for diarrhoea and pneumonia should be flexible and able to understand the risks as well as adapt to changes in context. • Involvement with the private sector In many high-mortality countries, private sector retailers, such as pharmacies and drug shops, play a significant role in provision of care for childhood illnesses, particularly diarrhoea. In addition to the risk of unregulated distribution of drugs through the private market, more expensive and ineffective treatments may be provided (e.g. antibiotics or anti-motility agents for diarrhoea rather than ORS and zinc). On the other hand, private practitioners, reached through their associations, can be strong allies for appropriate care when included in awareness-raising and educational activities. Experience of working with this sector is growing (see Table 2 and Boxes 16, 17 and 18 for examples). As mentioned previously, the United Nations Commission on Life-Saving Commodities for Women and Children is strengthening public-private partnerships for 1) the delivery of ORS and zinc for diarrhoea and of oral amoxicillin for pneumonia treatment, 2) the production of child-friendly formulations at affordable prices and 3) the creation of demand at national levels. 29 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) Table 2. Working with the private sector. Actions that government, partners and donors can undertake to collaborate with the private sector at each level of the supply chain Area for impact Government / partner / donor activities Case example Decrease product manufacturing cost • Work closely with pharmaceutical manufacturers to negotiate lower prices for important commodities in order to enhance availability of appropriate, affordable drugs in the public as well as in the private sector • Provide assistance to manufacturers on their cost structure in order to identify potential efficiencies (e.g. optimal sourcing) Contraceptives Through a coalition of governments, private donors and NGOs, a leading drug company agreed to reduce its price of long-acting contraception by more than half, improving accessibility of these contraceptives for 27 million women in the developing world. Encourage imports of essential commodities • Remove barriers to importation: waive import duties and taxes, and expedite registration processes • Provide market intelligence, including demand forecasts, market size estimates, and transparency on plans for parallel demand generation in the public sector Affordable Medicines Facility – malaria (AMFm) artemisinin-based combination therapy