local conditions: Provided that under special circumstances to be recorded in writing, the Registration Board may register a drug and require such investigations and clinical trials to be conducted after its registration. (vi) A new drug, where new method of manufacture is contemplated or a change is proposed in source, standard or specification of the active ingredient or the finished product may not require full investigations annex 3 SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 131 and clinical trials except in so far as they are necessary for the purpose of establishing bio-equivalence, absorption, acceptability or other such features. (vii) For imported drugs, GMP inspection of foreign manufacturer is also carried out prior to grant of registration. Experts in the relevant field inspect the foreign manufacturer to ensure that manufacturer fulfills the current Good Manufacturing Practices. However, pharmaceutical / biological products approved by United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA), World Health Organization (WHO), European Medicine Agency (EMA) or regulatory bodies of Japan, Australia, Health Canada, Switzerland any of the regulatory bodies of erstwhile Western Europe or three stringent regulatory bodies of erstwhile Eastern Europe shall be exempted from the inspection of the manufacturing unit abroad. (viii) If the Registration Board, after such further enquiry, if any, as it may consider necessary, is satisfied of its safety, efficacy, quality and economical value or where the public interest so requires, it may register the drug and issue a certificate of registration in Form 6, subject to such specific conditions as it may specify. (ix) Where it is necessary in the public interest so to do, the Registration Board may register a drug on its own motion without having received any application for registration. (x) If the Registration Board is not satisfied as to the safety, efficacy, quality or economic value of a drug, or where the public interest so requires it may reject the application for registration and inform the applicant of the reasons for such rejection in writing. (xi) The Drugs Registration Fee vide S.R.O 1117(I)/2012 is as follows: Fee (Rs.) Renewal Fee (Rs.) (a) New drug or molecule / drug not manufactured locally 50,000/20,000/(b) Any other drug for import 100,000/20,000/(c) Drug for local manufacture 20,000/10,000/(d) Drug for import --40,000/(e) Drug for local manufacture --20,000/(f) Variance to registration application i.e. changes in inactive raw materials, method of manufacture, testing methods or quality specifications, product specification, packing materials including changes of labeling