methodologies were chosen for tracking effectiveness of different interventions and their effect on the beneficiaries. Figure 2: Midterm Evaluation – Conceptual Framework Midterm Evaluation Report 23 3.1 Evaluation Criteria and Questions Following the TORs of MTE, Evaluation Matrix (Annex 1) was developed considering the evaluation objectives as per OECD/DAC criteria namely relevance, effectiveness, efficiency and sustainability. In addition to DAC Criteria, cross-cutting areas of equity and gender equality were taken into consideration while designing this evaluation as well as the Convention on the Rights of the Child (2 September 1990) and Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (18 December 1979) for incorporation of the UN and UNICEF's commitment to a human rights-based approach to programming to gender equality and to equity. All major evaluation questions were considered for discussion with stakeholders to conclude the findings of evaluation. Certain aspects of the DAC Criteria, like efficiency in terms of cost per beneficiary and comparison of the project cost with other similar interventions was not included in the scope of this evaluation. The Reference Group designated to review the technical approach and methodology of the evaluation endorsed this during the inception phase. Being a midterm evaluation, the impact criterion was not included in this evaluation. The MTE mainly focused on performance evaluation to see if the project was on track to achieve its desired outcomes and based on the lessons learnt what course corrective measures should be taken by the project and thus there was no counterfactual design adopted for this evaluation,; however, some of the outcomes that could be assessed under this timeline were included under criteria of effectiveness and efficiency. Building on the objectives of the midterm evaluation, key evaluation questions were developed as part of the evaluation matrix, which addressed the following criteria: 3.2.1 Relevance It is the extent to which the objectives of the development intervention suited to the priorities and policies of the target group, recipient and donor. In this MTE, relevance is evaluated through the following questions: • How relevant and meaningful are the project objectives and activities in addressing the needs and priorities of the marginalized and vulnerable children in the project areas? • To what extent the objectives of the project are consistent with the existing national/provincial policies and guidelines in line with global recommendations (WHO/ GAPPD) for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among under-five children in Pakistan and