therefore critically important that this CSG is chaired by a person that can create smooth communication channels between the provinces. Policy change in the Punjab province essentially entails putting the required strategic focus on the child mortality due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea. It therefore requires a Child Survival Strategy like Sindh. This strategy will help to steer the administrative and financial efforts required to address the child mortality and morbidity. Our findings suggest that Punjab has made progress on updating the essential medicine lists and Health Information Systems. However, implementation of these changes requires strong commitments from key stakeholders. It is important to know that health department in Punjab has been bifurcated into two departments i.e., Primary and Secondary healthcare department and the Specialized & Medical Education department. Child survival strategy will require inputs from the Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education department. It is therefore imperative to include a representative from that department as well. Furthermore, it is important to note that Punjab Government has put in a lot of efforts to strengthen and revitalize the MNCH program in the form of IRMNCH. DGHS chairs the CGS and therefore CSG becomes an important platform for the accountability patterns required for the desired outcomes. Our findings reveal that the CSG has started taking roots in the Punjab province. The CSG comprises of almost all the stakeholders and so far its decisions have not faced any hindrance from the decision makers in the province. Accountability in the context of public health is an interesting topic when it comes to Pakistan. Unlike United Kingdom or other western nations where public health comes as a strong election agenda and point of debate, public health, historically has not been certainly one of the yardsticks for the masses to choose the representatives. This lack of demand from the masses has been fuelled by lack of education, unemployment, poor accountability mechanisms and the complete absence of capital market intermediaries. Furthermore, the watchdogs like the mass media were not immune to an attitude of indifference to the issues like public health. However recently, political developments and the robust growth of mass media have brought the issues of public health to the national debate. Furthermore, increased development assistance from the development partners in the last decade has tremendously increased the focus on public health. Resultantly, there has been an enhanced focus on the accountability of the health services. One