decision, said a Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 152 Marketing Analyst and Advisor. It can be safely concluded that buying by the private sector would largely depend on the success of demand creation strategy applied by the stakeholders and availability of commodities. Factors influencing Demand Affordability Affordability is an important factor for creating and sustaining demand. Though, pricing of all the three products is presently in the affordable range for most clients, it is important to prevent undue hike. Government however supplies these commodities free to the consumers through public sector health facilities. Availability & Access As products are mostly needed in the rural areas and urban slums; it is important that effective distribution channels are utilized to ensure availability of products to all areas, including those far-flung and remote. For fear of mixing of the lot with spurious drugs, involvement of whole sellers in the distribution network was considered undesirable by ZAFA. Others however, believed that without the involvement of 37 1.5 35.5 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Demand Supply Gap Demand Supply Gap Figure 7: Amoxicillin DT Demand Supply Gap Analysis (In Millions) Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 153 whole sellers, products would find it hard to reach rural and remote areas. Promotional and Marketing Strategies Company that adopts and invests in vibrant promotional and marketing strategies and matches production capacity with the demand eventually wins better market share. These may include seminars/symposia for doctors, samples donations, effective supply chain management and regular chemist audit etc. According to one of the interviewed marketing analyst, “Product selling is the real science and has a significant influence over the prescribing behavior of the care providers, whether of public or private sector.” For successful market penetration, it is essential to ensure that company has the capability and capacity to meet demand timely; the product is affordable and the company is able to sustain increasing demand while maintaining competitive edge. As pneumonia and diarrhea are more prevalent in urban slums and rural areas, marketing efforts would need to focus healthcare providers working in such areas. M/S ZAFA has expressed willingness to contribute financially in implementing promotional strategy developed jointly with joint consultation of all stakeholders. Demand and Supply Gap Analysis Amoxicillin Dispersible Tablets Based on assumption that about 16 percent children of under five age suffer from Acute Respiratory Infections (ARIs) including pneumonia, approximately 74 million Amoxicillin DTs