of hypoxemia in children at healthcare facilities, and in guiding whether children need oxygen support or not. However, the fragility and replacement of the probe is another determining factor. The delicate probes need to be replaced every year and sometimes, even before due to their easily damageable nature (Stop Pneumonia, 2016). On the contrary dispersible tablet’s dosage is more accurate as each dose requires the complete intake of one or half tablet. Therefore, dosing errors can be better avoided with dispersible tablets. Hence UNICEF and WHO developed ARI Timer in 1990 to support health workers in determining how long they need to count a child’s breath. These updated commodities and equipment have aided the healthcare providers and community health workers in timely and accurate diagnosis, and early referral of childhood Pneumonia. Finding: The revised commodities are acceptable by both the care in public facilities and the community members for management of childhood Pneumonia & Diarrhea. This finding is a discourse on the major overarching themes that emerged from the interviews and focus group discussions among relevant stakeholders at Provincial and District levels. It mainly highlights the availability and acceptance of new commodities along with prescribing behavior of healthcare providers at public sector health facilities for the management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Availability/functionality of commodities at public health facilities – Pulse Oximeter and Oxygen Therapy used in treatment of Pneumonia were present and used in majority of the health facilities. Oxygen cylinders and flow meters were found to be available at nearly all selected facilities of Punjab and Sindh. There were respondents from selected facilities in districts including Dadu, Ghotki, Karachi West, Khairpur and Thatta that reported neglect and disinterest on the part of health authorities when it came to availability of equipment. Facility in-charges in almost all facilities of Sindh and Punjab, seemed to be convinced about the benefits of using Pulse oximeters and Oxygen therapy to help treat Pneumonia. Facility incharge from Sindh reported, “Oxygen plays an important role to save human lives particularly in severe condition of Pneumonia. Pulse Oximeter helps guide whether the child needs oxygen or not.” New forms of medication – Low osmolarity ORS, was available in most of the health facilities (80 percent) in implementing districts of Sindh and Punjab, with the in-charges being well aware of its benefits in comparison to the regular. Facilities In-charges in most instances had sound knowledge on