ORS help reduce Diarrhea severity and duration (UNICEF National Nutrition Survey, 2018). Cost effective alternatives such as Amoxicillin Midterm Evaluation Report 20 Dispersible tablets, Pulse Oximeter, ARI timers and Oxygen therapy can help diagnoses, manage, treat and prevent childhood Pneumonia (UNICEF, 2018). Gender disadvantage has pervasive effects across the lifetime, much of it mediated through poor care (Qadir etal, 2011). In Pakistan, male gender preference is deeply embedded in the culture. In Pakistan medical care is sought for children more often for sons than daughters (Qadir etal, 2011). Critically ill male children are twice as likely to be treated in hospitals as compared to their counterparts (Qadir etal, 2011). 2.2.2 Gender Equality Gender discrimination in child rearing, nutrition, health care seeking and education make woman highly vulnerable members of the society (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005). A core set of gender bottlenecks and barriers prevent the achievement of specific outcomes (UNICEF, 2014) and are discussed as follows: a) Women’s and girls’ lack of safety and mobility: Limited access to the outer world has been culturally entrenched in rural society, even if it is a matter of consulting a physician in emergency (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005). b) Women’s and girls’ lack of resources and decision making: Men play a paramount role in determining the health needs of woman (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005). The low status of women prevents them from recognizing and voicing their concerns about health care needs (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005). Women despite being primary caregivers for families in most instances have low control or autonomy and are often not allowed to visit a healthcare facility alone (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005). Lack of economic control and social dependence undermines women independence and decision making power (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005). This certainly has repercussions on health particularly in the case that they are the primary caregivers (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005). c) Limited access to information, knowledge, and technology and decision-making: Low or lack of Formal education amongst these women also accounts for poor understanding and recognition of seriousness of Diarrhea and Pneumonia resulting in unnecessary delay in care-seeking and low compliance (Bhutta & Hafeez). PDHS results on IMR clearly show that differences in equity of care exist between male and females gender disparities. Moreover, in the absence of mother as a primary caregiver, grandmothers are seen to be secondary caregivers (UNICEF, 2018). Knowledge of these elderly members is considered to be