serve as an alternative to already existing and established products. However, the registration process and the investment scenario need to be facilitated and incentivized. Without a robust private sector manufacturing these commodities, it is impossible to sustainably supply the masses. Interest of the manufacturers cannot be generated unless there is a strong market case supported by adequate projected demands over the next few years. Furthermore, the process has to be incentivized and facilitated on the different levels for promoting investment in these commodities. Making a business case for the firms and protecting the rights of the patients will require multileveled efforts. As a first step, it is important that a Production Promotion Working Group is notified. Simultaneously, it is important that efforts on the demand creation through the change in the prescribing behaviour of the healthcare providers are carried out on war footings. A strong and continuous engagement of all stakeholders is a need of the hour. Our findings suggest that the Ministry of National Health Services Regulation and Coordination and the Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan need to establish and operate a Production Promotion Working Group to incentivize the local manufacturing of these commodities. 101 6.4 ASSUMPTIONS INFORMING THEORY OF CHANGE Each strategic area and the associated outcome are based on a certain set of assumptions that guide our theory of change. It is very important to understand and outline the assumptions associated with each outcome. In the following lines, the assumptions associated with the strategic areas are discussed. 6.4.1 Policy Change Existing national and provincial policies and guidelines are updated in line with the global recommendations (WHO/GAPPD) for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan by 2019. The following are assumptions and preconditions for the necessary policy change: • Evidence based advocacy efforts are conducted with the relevant decision makers and these efforts bring about the necessary changes in the attitude of the decision makers. • Child Survival groups are empowered, committed and capable of implementing the interventions • A joint accountability framework and annual work plan is formed under the stewardship of child survival groups • Policy makers and professionals have improved knowledge about the effectiveness of the new global recommendations and are fully on board for the changes required • The essential medicine lists and procurement lists have been updated to incorporate the new recommendations • The Health Information Systems are updated