health system. Officials from both provinces said that this project aligns with their provincial health sector strategies. The Government of Punjab, taking forward the intent of the newly elected political leadership to reform and restructure Punjab Health Sector towards beer performance, has pursued the development of ten year Punjab Health Sector Strategy 2019-28. The defined priories of the new leadership in the health sector include patient safety and quality of care, infection control, hospital waste management, environmental/one health, Health financing & public private partnership in the backdrop of three paradigms biomedical, socio-environmental and lifestyle and behavioural contexts. Thematic strategic area of Punjab Health Sector Strategy 2019-28, no. 1 and no. 5 are relevant to the mid-term evaluation of this project. 1. Maternal and Child Health (MNCH) (to ensure timely free access to a quality MNCH services irrespective of ability to-pay, to all the people in Punjab; to institutionalise quality of care in MNCH services delivery system). 2. Health Management Information System (to enhance scope and contents of health data systems for policy and planning). The strategic framework for Sindh Health Sector Strategy 2012-2020 shall serve as an overarching umbrella to guide the operational plans of medium and long-term programmes and projects. It also provides estimates of resource envelopes, for the total budgetary outlays as well as costs of specific strategies requiring assistance. The key purpose of developing the strategic framework is to identify as to what is required for health systems strengthening in Sindh and to define a set of sub strategies for the major building blocks of the HSS including: service delivery; human resources; health management information; medical products, vaccines and technologies; financing; and leadership /governance/stewardship. A provincial respondent elaborated that, “In 2015 Global Financing Facility (GFF) established a Trust to fund 30 high priority districts and to support their unmet needs to achieve the SDG agenda. Further Neo-natal Units have also been established in the high priority Districts of Pakistan.” It was also mentioned that national and provincial EMLs have been updated with the new Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities in accordance with GAPPD. However, there is no pool procurement at national level, therefore procurement of drugs is managed at Provincial levels. There have been ongoing efforts for streamlining the LMIS in PHC facilities including the Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities. Midterm Evaluation Report 48 Support of development partners including WHO, UNFPA and UNICEF, to ministry of health and provincial