suggestions for ensuring un-interrupted supply of these medicines and commodities? 7. Now, we would like to know about the process of forecasting and quantification of medicines and supplies at your facility? Probes: i. Is it based on burden of disease in your catchment area or based on data from DHIS? ii. Are the supplies provided according to the demands submitted? If no, kindly explain reasons for under-supply. iii. Have you or other staff member received any formal training on forecasting and quantification of medicines and supplies? iv. What do you suggest for improving the process of forecasting and quantification to overcome stock-outs? 8. In your opinion, what is the use of DHIS in context of management of children suffering from Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Probe: i. Are you satisfied with the quality (accuracy of information, completeness and timeliness) of DHIS recording and reporting? If not, how can we improve it? ii. Do you find any duplication of reporting (like Disease Surveillance System and DHIS) that may affect the decision-making? Midterm Evaluation Report 109 iii. Does DHIS help keeping the record of referrals made in complicated cases? iv. Do you think that current DHIS indicators sufficiently cover the data requirements for managing Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Do you suggest to include some indicators? v. Can you comment on the capacities of your staff on using DHIS tools? If there are any gaps, how can these be addressed? 9. Now, coming to the role of community health workers in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea, particularly Lady Health Workers (LHWs) and Community Midwives (CMWs), what is their importance in reducing morbidity and mortality associated with these diseases? Probes: i. Is there any network of these workers associated with your facility? ii. Are these workers fully equipped and have been provided with sufficient supplies to perform their role in management of these illness? iii. How their role can be further strengthened? iv. Do you find any gap in linkages between these workers and public/private health facilities? What are your suggestions to improve this situation? 10. Now, I would like you to comment on the cost of treating Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Probes: i. In your opinion, does cost play a significant influence over the choice of medicines prescribed and service provider? ii. How commonly do you prescribe a medicine to be bought from market in case of its stock-out? iii. What do you do in case of