in time. 4.2.10 Section X: Organizational support for Logistics system The organizational support for the logistics activity is an important component for smooth operations of supply chain management system. It was observed, that the communication system among the public health facilities at the district levels was either weak or ambiguous. There were no routine meetings of the logistics staff. Mostly, the communication is through SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 49 the submission of reports and/or feedbacks. There was no capacity building of staff to develop the skills for better and more effective supervisory visits. The supervisors have an empathic behavior toward the departmental negligence. During health department’s supervisors (DHO, coordinators etc.) visits, the coaching of health facility staff should be arranged. Such frequent coaching should be obligatory because it may help the on-job staff to develop the skills required for their employment. In Punjab, monitoring of the stock out status was reported by two systems; one was DHIS and second was MEAs. Health department has more trust on MEAs data. The process of medicines forecasting was introduced in e-procurement software which was accessible at regional level. During the medicines procurement meetings at secretory health office, the demands of districts and health facilities were refined, rationalized and submitted to the manufacturers. The argument of health facilities staff, that they receive less quantity of medicines was still not denied. . In Sindh, The Public health facilities lacked a well-defined system of medicines forecasting. It lead to irrational demand of medicines, and a common argument made by health facility staff was, that they do not receive the quantity of medicines according to their requisitions. Such issues were raised by the health facility staff during the supervisor’s visits. Conversely, the health facilities under the supervision of PPP, did receive the medicines according to their submitted demand. In the public and private partners, the health facilities did regular visits of higher levels, in which Hand on trainings / on job coaching has been done. 4.2.11 Section XI: Product use All out efforts were made to improve the system, which ultimately, lead to the improvement of the availability of right drug, at right time in right dosage and frequency. Irrational prescribing practices of the physicians may influence the whole efforts that were put in to improve the SCMS. The WHO always recommends and promotes the rational utilization of the drugs. In SCM, efforts made to