treatment. A parent from Sindh elaborated on self-medication, “Poor people treat children at home first ... They also ask Molvi Sahab of the village for prayers. They give ORS to their child at home. If my child does not get better, we go to another hospital for treatment.” Home remedies were an option for parents due to convenience and cost-effectiveness. Many people preferred home remedies as the first step resort, before seeking help at a hospital. A parent from Punjab stated, “We use home remedies at first because doctor is far away. Treatment is expensive and poverty is widespread…” Private Hospitals – Private hospitals seemed to be viewed as one of the last resorts for treatment, with parents only opting for them after having received unsatisfactory services from the government facilities. The main reason for this was high service charges that private facilities entailed. A respondent from Sindh ruled out private facilities entirely, saying; “We cannot afford treatment at private hospital.” Spiritual Healing – Spiritual healing was also one of the acceptable means of treatment for some. Quite a few parents mentioned that they utilized spiritual treatment, nonetheless majority preferred hospitals and other health facilities. There were also some cases where respondents used both options simultaneously, often as a bridge between modern medication and deep-rooted cultural and religious sentiments. Hakeem Treatment (Tibb) – Very few parents mentioned that treatment by Hakeem was one of the forms of treatment they used. Much of this is owed to traditional values as can be seen from the response of this parent from Punjab; “We visit Hakeem at first and then visit the hospital because of our elder’s advice. Our elders prefer Hakeem.” 61 4.2.8.3 Factors Effecting Health Facilities Visits There were many factors that affected the health facility visits of parents with sick children. However, parents had different priorities for choosing a healthcare center. In one case a factor took precedence for a parent while in another, it was not even a consideration. For example location of a facility was important for certain parents whereas getting personal attention from the doctor was a priority for others. Nevertheless, every factor played a certain role in the parents decision-making process. Free Treatment/Medicines – Free treatment and medicines played a significant role in drawing patients to government health facilities. Cheaper and more cost effective services were one of the reasons. A parent from Sindh justified his