emerged in the responses of Pharmacy in-charges while comparing the two medical practitioners. Financial Gains – A couple of pharmacists from Sindh believed that primary interest of the doctors was patients’ wellbeing. Some pharmacists were also of the opinion that there were two types of medical practitioners, those who were driven by self-interest and those who had the patients’ health as their priority. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab held the view, “In case of some doctors, it is only self-interest and in case of others it is mainly usefulness of medicine the reason behind Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 96 prescriptions by doctors.” However, there was a widespread notion that medical practitioners kept personal gains in consideration while prescribing medicines. Pharmacy in-charges were more skeptical about GPs and believed that most of them worked for their own financial gains and prescribed medicines accordingly. A pharmacist from Sindh mentioned, “Most of the GP work on commission basis and prescribe more medicine. It is always better for the GPs that patients remain in problems.” This resonated with another pharmacy in-charge from Punjab who conveyed, “Doctors while prescribing any medicine, instead of considering factors like purchasing power of the patient, consider their own business or financial interests.” A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh also complained, “GPs always struggle to make more commission.” Another common perception about GPs among Pharmacy in-charges was that they provided medicines themselves instead of referring to a pharmacy. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab claimed, “We rarely receive any prescription from GPs as they give medicine to their patients from their own side. GPs have their own medical store or stock of relevant medicine and they are not qualified doctors either.” Pharmacy in-charges categorically mentioned two factors in their responses about GPs’ prescribing behaviors through which they maximized their gains; quality and quantity of medicines. Quality of Care – There was a widespread perception that specialists prescribed better quality of medicines while GPs prescribed low quality. This can be attributed to the view that GPs prescribed substandard medicine to achieve their personal interest. One of the pharmacy in-charges said, “Specialists prescribe good quality of medicine as Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 97 compared to GPs who prescribe normal or third class medicine.” A pharmacist wanted to sound politically correct as he asserted his view, “There is difference of quality of medicine prescribed by specialists and GPs. It is not my scope