18 clinical trials are being conducted all over Pakistan due to lack of training and effective accountability. DRAP has developed new rules for the bio-studies in the light of WHO guidelines and the draft has been sent to the Federal cabinet for approval. There are 4 designated labs in the private sector; including Husain Ebrahim Jamal Institute of Chemistry Laboratory (HEJ Lab) and one in Dow Medical College in Karachi, which are fully capable for conducting bio-equivalence studies. The DRAP does not carry out bio-equivalence studies. It only reviews reports submitted to it by any of these standard labs. Unfortunately, such local studies are rarely conducted in Pakistan, which is a major deficiency. There is a need to conduct comparative studies locally, as there is also apprehension whether low osmolarity ORS should actually be recommended for children residing in Pakistan, where in extreme hot weather and intense sweating more electrolytes are liable to be lost compared to any western country. 70 5.3 CURRENT MARKET TRENDS Pattern of prescriptions reaching at private pharmacies from healthcare providers including General Practitioners (GPs) and Specialists was studied in selected districts of Sindh and Punjab. It was seen that although these pharmacies mostly catered to prescriptions of private practitioners, prescriptions from public sector facilities were also not so uncommon. On average 10-15% prescriptions reportedly emerged from public sector facilities (e.g. BHUs and RHCs), but the demand reached up to fifty percent in one of study district of Punjab. A good percentage of such prescriptions albeit were for intravenous injections and fluids. When stock out position of Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities was discussed with facility in-charges, most claimed not suffering from any stock outs. They, however admitted at the same time, ‘We never received quantity as per demand and had to resort to local purchase (LP) during disease outbreak season.’ For the treatment of Acute Respiratory Infections/Pneumonia, quinolones were the most commonly prescribed antimicrobial, followed by 3rd generation cephalosporin, Amoxicillin, Co-omoxiclav, Cotrimoxizole and 1st generation cephalosporin. For the treatment of Diarrhea, ORS and metronidazole were most commonly prescribed drugs. Majority of prescriptions, by specialists and GPs alike, contained Zinc suspension in Sindh, but in Punjab while specialists’ prescriptions often contained Zinc, most GPs did not recommend it. A definite association was observed between the visits of medical representatives, provision of incentives and prescription trend of most care providers, particularly in the private sector. Most pharmacies visited