and acceptability about the benefits of DTs especially Amoxicillin. These LHWs seemed to have some shortage of supplies especially regarding DTs, however majority were being provided with LoORS and Zinc syrups. LHWs were aware of the benefits of ARI Timers in Acute Respiratory Tract Infections and have been provided with the same under the project. However, if an ARI Timer goes non-functional, LHWs showed their concern that it took up to six months before a new one was provided to them. Perceptions of caregivers on updated commodities – Majority of parents/caregivers seemed to be aware of the benefits of LoORS, Amoxicillin and Zinc syrups, however they were mixed views about the presence of DTs for treating these illnesses. A few of them, who had access to dispersible tablets, were not clear on how to administer DTs accurately and therefore perceived them as a substance hard to swallow. Some of the caregivers from Karachi (Malir) viewed DTs as, “…before we were provided with syrup which was easy to use and not difficult to swallow… Tablets now given are hard to swallow.” Perceptions of paediatricians at federal and provincial levels – Perspective of the senior paediatricians at tertiary level health care facilities mentioned Diarrhea and Pneumonia as the most common diseases in their catchment areas. There was a general environment of awareness and acceptability of the new commodities introduced for treating these illnesses. Dispersible Tablets and Low Osmolarity ORS were not available and therefore not being prescribed for treating Diarrhea and Pneumonia at provincial level facilities. Perceptions of GPs and Medical Store Keeper on updated commodities – There were mixed responses about the awareness of Dispersible Tablets and LoORS among General Practitioners and Pharmacy In-charges in treating Diarrhea and Pneumonia. Some GPs were aware of these modes of treatment. This awareness was relatively lower in Punjab. Among GPs, who were aware of low osmolarity ORS, some considered it better than the regular one, while others considered the opposite. Generally, GPs were unsure about its benefits. Similarly, most GPs were unaware of Dispersible Tablets (DTs) and amongst the few who were aware; they were concerned about their community acceptance. A GP from Punjab revealed, “oral Zinc has very important role in treatment…however I have never heard about Zinc DTs before.” Another GP from Sindh said, “…have heard of Zinc DTs for the first time. I think private sector should be involved in order