diet as the prime cause of child mortality, contraction of diseases and general unhealthiness. Parents related child mortality to lack of availability of food rather than diseases. A parent from Sindh elaborated, “In our area, there are too many mosquitos but nobody dies because of any disease, instead there are many casualties because of food deficiency.” Many parents mentioned that lack of healthy and hygienic food also led to many diseases. A parent from Sindh explained, “There are many reasons [for getting sick] including, extreme winter or summer season and due to unhygienic environment. Yes, people can prevent them if they avoid readymade food and eating items from market.” Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 114 A parent from Sindh discussed his child’s condition and unhealthy eating habits, “He kept vomiting for 10 days. Doctor prescribed medicines to control vomiting but now he has abdominal pain and is suffering from loose motions. He buys chips and candies from market which might be the reason behind his condition.” Extreme Temperature Changes – Changing weather, seasonal variation along with sudden and extreme change in temperature was also held responsible in promoting diseases. Drinking cold water, getting wet in the rain, exposure to heat were some of the activities mentioned in this context. Parents were aware that cold weather had to be countered with warm clothing. According to a parent in Punjab, “Pneumonia can be prevented by keeping the children warm in winter season and preventing them from drinking chilled water. As for diarrhea it can be prevented by avoiding unhygienic food and by stopping children from putting random things in their mouths.” Another parent from Punjab shared a similar opinion, “We should stop the children from drinking very cold water in winters. They develop this habit in summer sand don’t change in winters. They should be properly dressed in warm clothes…” Accessing Treatment Most parents accessed medical treatment through government facilities, selfmedication and as a last resort through private hospitals. Home remedies, spiritual healing and hakeem treatment (Tibb) were most popular other forms of treatment. When Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 115 inquired about peer or cultural pressure in seeking any health services, majority of the parents revealed that no such pressure existed in accessing health care. Most parents attributed improved literacy and increase in awareness as the major factor for such notion. A parent from Punjab expounded, “There was a time when