procurement at national level, therefore procurement of drugs is managed at Provincial levels. There have been ongoing efforts for streamlining the LMIS in PHC facilities including the Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities. Midterm Evaluation Report 48 Support of development partners including WHO, UNFPA and UNICEF, to ministry of health and provincial department of health was appreciated by the policy makers. Technical as well as financial support of these international donors was acknowledged. A respondent stated, “UN looks at health initiatives at global level, regional level and then facilitate to translate that at country level. Pneumonia & Diarrhea is included in this process.” Finding: Introduction of new commodities and management guidelines has contributed in improved management of P&D cases The officials acknowledged the development of a separate module in IMNCI guidelines dedicated to Pneumonia and Diarrhea along with the introduction of new commodities for the management of these childhood illnesses. It was generally believed that these interventions contributed in improving Pneumonia and Diarrhea case management to a great extent, however some challenges were also spelled out. The availability and acceptability of the new commodities is not widespread which impacts the management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea cases. However, the awareness of DTs was prevalent which shows improvement since the baseline was conducted. DTs are available at facility levels in both provinces and are well received by the community they cater to. However, the most GPs said that they don’t prescribe them and majority pharmacy in-charges also said that they don’t keep DTs due to low demand. There low demand and supply is like a vicious circle. A paediatrician was of the view that, “There is a dire need to convince health care professionals to use DT and to promote their acceptability, they should be prescribed at tertiary level which in turn will set a precedent for the other levels.” Acceptability of Low Osmolarity ORS was relatively more than the DTs. In both provinces and districts, majority of the respondents were aware that it is more effective in treating Diarrhea than regular ORS. Community was aware of its benefit to some extent. There was no denying the usefulness of ARI timers and pulse oximeters in timely diagnosing ARI/Pneumonia and Diarrhea and referral where required. Health care providers were aware that pulse oximeters could not be used without oxygen. Facility in-charges in Punjab complained of lack of requisite equipment and the need for proper maintenance.