needs and priorities of the marginalized and vulnerable children in the project areas? • To what extent the objectives of the project are consistent with the existing national/provincial policies and guidelines in line with global recommendations (WHO/ GAPPD) for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among under-five children in Pakistan and are sustainable? • Are the strategies or approaches appropriate and adequate to achieve results? 3.1.2 Effectiveness Effectiveness is measure of the extent to which the development intervention attained its objectives. It was evaluated by the following questions: • To what extent the project has achieved its objectives/ outcomes and what were the major factors influencing the achievement or non-achievement of the objectives/ outcomes? • To what extent the implementation of the project approaches worked as intended, particularly after the baseline in 2016 and subsequent adjustments? • How effectively various Federal Ministry and Provincial Health Departments and Programmes coordinated among each other? • Whether the mechanisms available to create awareness among communities are effectively linked to the project objectives? • Whether the healthcare provider and community health workers have the required knowledge and skills to proper utilization of supplies as per standards? Midterm Evaluation Report 24 • Whether the monitoring and reporting mechanisms exist and effectively implemented for effective tracking and improvement in system? • How effective are the ‘innovative approaches like use of ARI timers and pulse oximeter, what results can be achieved, are replicable within the Sindh/Punjab context? • To what extent the project has been able to contribute to ownership and leadership of the provincial/ area DOHs? • What have been the major factors influencing the achievement or non-achievement of outcomes? 3.1.3 Efficiency Efficiency measures the outputs – qualitative and quantitative – in relation to the inputs. It is an economic term and measures how economically resources/inputs (funds, expertise, time, etc.) are converted to results. For the MTE, efficiency was evaluated by the following questions: • How well the resources, both human and financial, been managed to ensure timely, attainment of results? • What are the implementation challenges from the perspective of both right holders and duty bearers especially for the underfive marginalized children of communities? • What is the value added in terms of improved delivery of services for Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • Whether the availability of P&D supplies is adequate, timely and whether they are prescribed? • To what extent has the project achieved its goals