is meeting 70% demand of all the finished products and the sector is expanding in the international market. The quality of locally manufactured drugs is regulated by the Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP), which on average takes 15-18 months to process registration of a new product. This process however can be expedited if the public interest demands so. Although DRAP’s rules currently do not allow marketing of co-packaged Zinc and ORS but has no restriction on Co-packaging of the same after purchase. While one local company was found to be licensed to manufacture Amoxicillin DT, over 15 large to medium sized local pharmaceutical companies were identified which were known to produce Zinc DT and Low Osmolarity ORS. Five key companies; ZAFA, ATCO, FEROZSONS, AMSON and Well n Well have expressed willingness to enhance production after agreeing 116 on promotion strategy jointly prepared with UNICEF. Factors that may influence supply include capability and capacity to use technology, profitability, presence of substitute, site of manufacturing plant and sustenance of demand. Factors which may influence demand include; affordability, availability/accessibility, operational and marketing strategies. Furthermore, they also demonstrated a readiness to cooperate with UN agencies in launching advocacy campaigns to enhance demand. At present, ZAFA is the only known local manufacturer of Amoxicillin DT in Pakistan with a production capacity of 1.4 million tablets per day. Considering prevalence of ARI and availability of substitutes and other competing factors, it is presumed that ZAFA alone can meet the requirement of Amoxicillin DT in just 53 work days if manufacture in full capacity. Based on assumption that 23% of under five children (7,072,644) suffer from Diarrhea each year in Pakistan, it is estimated that 100 million dosages of Zinc sulphate are required for 14 days treatment of under-five Diarrhea patients. ZAFA and FEROZSONS, geographically located in Northern and Southern regions of the country, can jointly meet this requirement in 36 days. Approximately 42.4 million sachets of 20.5 g/l or 21.2 million sachets of 10.2 g/l of low osmolarity ORS will be needed to meet the requirement according to the burden of disease. Two companies, ATCO and FEROZSONS, having production capacity to manufacture 120,000 sachets per day, can meet this requirement in less than 27 weeks. To fulfil the need of Diarrhea commodities at a tertiary care facility, there may be something to learn from a unique supply model practiced at The Children Hospital and The