as possible; rather, prompts should be in the form of ‘give us an example of …’, ‘what do you think of …’, ‘tell us more about … 1 Accessibility and catchment area 2 Disease Load 3 Knowledge and skill 4 Availability of treatment protocol/guidelines 5 Availability of medicine and supplies 6 Case management 7 Challenges in case handling 8 Health facility liaison and referral support 9 Liaison with the other Community Health Workers 10 Monitoring and feedback 11 Case reporting and documentation 12 Community behavior and response 13 Social beliefs and taboos 14 Suggestions for improvement of services 11. ANNEX 164 6. INTERVIEW GUIDE FOR DISTRICT MANAGERS CEO-DHA/EDOH/DHO Before starting interview, remember to : • Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit • Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of study objectives • Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 01. First I’d like to ask you about the provincial guidelines/policies to address the challenges related to child health services. • What autonomy district health department/authority has got to make its own policies? 02. Do you have your district strategic or operational health plans? Do these plans include district targets for child health services, particularly management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • What is the situation of services for Pneumonia and Diarrhea in your district? • What initiatives district has taken for improvement of these services? 03. What is the status of human resource related to Pneumonia and Diarrhea, in primary level health facilities in your district? • What are care providers related issues for delivery of these services? • What initiatives government has taken to retain the staff on health facilities? • How do you address the absenteeism? • If not, what are the reasons for unavailability of staff? • In your opinion, how can situation of HR improve at public sector health facilities? 04. We are interested to learn about community-based healthcare providers (LHW/CMW). • What is their role in provision of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services, regarding diagnosis, treatment and referral? • What is the quality of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services provided by them? • What are your suggestions to further improve their services? 05. What do you think about the competence level of staff at primary level facilities and community based staff to manage Diarrhea and Pneumonia in children? • What is your routine mechanism for in-service training and capacity building