the P&D project clearly indicates that its achievements outweigh its constraints by far, which is evidence on project being sustainable in future. Finding: The project envisages increased Government ownership and donor’s commitment for project sustainability. Sustainability of P&D project depends on its achievements and performance as perceived by the stakeholders including government, partner agencies, health facility staff and patients. This means that all the services are provided to end users’ and providers’ satisfaction. The other contributing factor is that government and organizations if manage their knowledge assets effectively will gain sustainable competitive advantage and this is why knowledge management is surety bond of sustainability in healthcare. Knowledge management and therefore sustainability depends upon coordination, transformation, and transfer of knowledge and aims to facilitating the communication of knowledge to the people that created it, as well as the people that need it. Sustainability can only be achieved if the good practices are to be simulated in the scaling up and replication of this project. The good practices in the current project such as the commitments, resolve and capacity of government and partner agencies to run the project effectively in a developing country like Pakistan with limited resources, its compromised performance issues (Pakistan ranked 120/190 in healthcare performance), high EQ: What is required to ensure prospects of sustainability of the project outcomes and the potential for replication or scale up of good practices and/or innovative approaches? Midterm Evaluation Report 64 disease load of Pneumonia and Diarrhea as well as many other communicable and noncommunicable diseases and alarmingly high rates of morbidity and mortality in the children under 5 years of age. The resolve of the government and other stakeholders are evident in the form of updating of IMNCI guidelines, addition of DTs and L-ORS in EML and Procurement Lists, updating of DHIS reporting tool and inclusion of six commodities in MSDP. Another good practice to be replicated is the coordination amongst all the stakeholders and as a result of it, the evidence based decision making by CSGs whose recommendations are conveyed and followed till the lowest operational level effectively. There are a certain innovative approaches that can be integrated into the scaled up/replicated projects: community involvement in the project at different levels such as at sub-district, district, provincial and federal level. The involvement of community is aimed to develop ownership of the project in the local community and as an accountability measure.