Mgone, Frank 2001). It is therefore important that hypoxemia is detected early and accurately and oxygen administration initiated immediately to those needing it. Although hypoxemia is defined by varying thresholds of oxygen saturation depending on altitude current general guidelines suggest oxygen administration to a child with a measured oxygen saturation < 90% (Lozano 1994). Where oxygen saturation is not available, current guidelines recommend that oxygen should be administered to all children with very severe Pneumonia and those with a respiratory rate ≥ 70 breaths per minute amongst those with severe Pneumonia (WHO 1991). Management of oxygen supplementation is divided into nasal cannula and mechanical ventilation. Mechanical ventilation is life-supporting ventilation that requires the use of a ventilator, or respirator. Mechanical ventilation is of two types; non-invasive ventilation (NIV) and invasive ventilation. The former provides ventilatory support to a patient through a firmly fitted facial or nasal mask and the latter through a tube inserted into the windpipe through the mouth or the nose or a hole made in the windpipe through the front of the throat (Zhang, Fang, Dong, Wu, Deng 2012). For children, oxygen is often given using a tent that fits over the crib. Currently prescription for oxygen therapy is quite common for individuals with Pneumonia. However, in rural hospitals of developing countries, oxygen supplies are poor and detection of hypoxemia is difficult. When available, supplemental oxygen is one of the first prescriptions caregivers write into the treatment plan for a child with hypoxemia and Pneumonia (Duke et.al, 2008). 23 DESIGN & METHODOLOGY 24 This chapter describes the research design and methodology adopted for this landscape analysis in detail. From research purpose to data collection, to ethical considerations, this chapter attempts to capture every detail of the research process. 3.1 RESEARCH PURPOSE The purpose of the research was to assess the treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea through: a) Availability of commodities (equipment and medicines). b) Prescribing behaviors and treatment approaches among public and private sector service provider’s and vertical programs (LHW program). c) Availability of treatment medicines in public sector facilities and medical stores in the surrounding areas of private provider’s facilities. d) Reporting indicators within DHIS and perspective of the clients exiting the healthcare facility. 3.2 RESEARCH DESIGN This was a cross-sectional study that mainly utilized primary qualitative research techniques as well as desk research. Primary data was collected through key informant interviews, focus group discussions, policy