build consensus on strengthening the logistics system with updated EMLs, MSDP and procurement lists. A digital logistic management information system (LMIS) software, which is linked with district health information system (DHIS), is being developed. KII’s were conducted with DHIS focal person of Sindh and Punjab. DHIS focal persons in Sindh and Punjab informed, “Health Information System has been upgraded in the province with technical support of partners, including UNICEF” EQ: To what extent the project has achieved its objectives/ outcomes and what were the major factors influencing the achievement or non-achievement of the objectives/ t ? Midterm Evaluation Report 50 UNICEF, helped in the printing and dissemination of the reporting tools in the updated DHIS with inclusion of P&D indicators. Furthermore, it was told that master trainers were trained which would train medics and paramedics on the use of these tools. Finding: The project managed to achieve policy level planned milestones, however implementation of these policies at district and community level need to be strengthened. In the annual progress report of Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project, UNICEF has outlined four outcomes that have to be achieved by the end of this project. First outcome being aimed is the Policy Change by updating existing national/provincial policies and guidelines in line with global recommendations WHO and GAPPD for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan by the end of 2019. Second outcome is that of Policy Translation through transformation of revised and updated Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment guidelines into relevant action plans by all provincial/areas health departments in Pakistan by the end of 2019. Then to achieve Policy Implementation, availability of essential commodities (Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, co-packaged ORS and Zinc, Oxygen, ARI Timers and Pulse Oximeters) should be ensured for treatment of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Pakistan, by the end of 2019. Last but not the least, Knowledge Management through translation of lessons learned from this investment to other settings/broader geographical scopes within Pakistan has to be conducted. Time and again policy makers emphasized the incorporation of changes in national and provincial guidelines in accordance global recommendations. Updated EMLs, MSDPs, & procurement lists were also mentioned by most of the relevant stakeholders. It was revealed that provincial EMLs and procurement lists have been updated to include the new commodities and devices. In Punjab, MSDPs have also been updated, while in Sindh the MSDPs are still under revision.