scope of this analysis encompasses the first three strategic areas of policy change, clinical management of pneumonia and diarrhea and the local manufacturing of the proposed commodities. The outcome pathways for these strategic areas have been mapped based on the extensive insights from the analysis of our findings for this study. However, the outcome pathways for the strengthened logistics system and the budgeting for the commodities is based on the insights of the secondary data. • Policy Change • Clinical Management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 162 • Local Manufacturing of the Proposed Commodities • Strengthened Logistics and Procurement System • Budgeting for the Updated Commodities There are multiple stakeholders at the different level of health system, which in synergistic manner will make sure that the commodities are available for the treatment of children suffering from pneumonia and diarrhea. However, the interplay of different actors within the health system of Pakistan requires a deep understanding of the role played by different actors, role of the different departments within those actors and finally how these actors can contribute to our overall outcomes. Once we have all the stakeholders listed out an accountability assessment matrix will help us to track the relative patterns of accountability among the different stakeholders. This matrix examines the accountability relationships as assessed through the lens of the data available. Finally, these accountability patterns and relationships are seen individually on the outcome basis. Based on the findings of assessment matrix, it becomes easier to assess the strengths and weaknesses of an accountability relationship where the stakeholders are irreplaceable. The following diagram maps a tentative pathway for the desired impact. There are interventions, which lead to desired outputs. These outputs contribute to our short term and long-term outcomes. These long term outcomes confluence to achieve our collective desired change. This diagram is followed by a brief description of these strategic areas and a corresponding accountability framework. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 163 Desired Policy Change Change in the policy and strategy level is the first step that would lay the foundations of a strong change required to make sure that the new commodities are not only available in the market but they are being prescribed by the healthcare providers. Policy change in our context means these necessary achievements: • Policy makers and decision makers are made aware of the global recommendations and they are committed