programs as currently it is only integrated with IRMNCH. Furthermore, it was shared that it has been approved to update the DHIS and MIS of LHWs to reflect the new commodities. This change will report the stock outs of Amoxicillin DT and Zinc DT in the DHIS. The recording and reporting tools of the LHWs will have columns and rows to document Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT and ARI timers, on which they will be trained. Provincial managers informed that the Sindh is also in the process of upgrading and revising DHIS tools and procedure manual. It was revealed that the final draft has been prepared after consultations with the stakeholders and it was informed that the revised tools and manuals will go into printing. It was reported that new draft of DHIS, includes indicators about availability of Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT and Low osmolarity ORS in the stock available at the facility. It also has a provision of entering OPD data for Diarrhea and dysentery separately for under 5 children (previously there was provision for entry of combined data only). Moreover, an age slot has been added to differentiate data of neonatal deaths from infant and U5 deaths. Managers told that the drafts of DHIS tools and procedures manual of Sindh, shall only be finalized after incorporating feedback of trainees participating in ToTs. They expressed their hope that the material shall be printed by the end of this year, with support of UNICEF. It was informed that all the GAPPD recommendations have been included in the updated DHIS. Furthermore, it was told that master trainers will be trained which will train medics and paramedics on the use of these tools. It was hoped that these trainings will help a lot to change the prescribing behavior of the healthcare providers in the public sector. 38 4.1.5.2 Flow of Information The managers shared the flow of data where they said that the DHIS data is compiled at the district level to be transmitted to the provincial headquarters. On the other hand, the vertical programs have their own streams of data, which are compiled at the district level and then the data takes the form of Provincial MIS. This information is later shared with the main stakeholders. 4.1.5.3 Validity and Reliability of Data Managers almost at every level of the system stressed the need of a reliable information system for effective decision-making. A