The WHO definitions of “opening stock balance”, “stock out” and “stock on hand” should be used to create harmony and synchronization of LMIS with revised DHIS. 5. As an interim measure, a master list of health facilities, commodities etc. of partners, stakeholder and others who support the cause for Diarrhea and Pneumonia should be shared and synchronized till the interoperability layer can be added. 6. Based on WHO recommendations, Zinc DT should be used instead of Zinc syrup for the treatment of Diarrhea. WHO recommendations should be followed, in LHW kits, Zinc syrup should be replaced with Zinc DT; along with easy handling of kit, and accuracy of dose will also be increased. It will help to reduce the transportation cost. The stock levels and consumption of Zinc supplement and Amoxicillin suspension should be monitored by LHW program LMIS. 7. The distribution of medicine should be in the form of complete courses or Kits so that the STG should be followed. Medicines transportation system should be outsourced to companies like IRMNCH & NP in Punjab. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 63 7.1.2 Medium term Recommendations 1. The integration process should be launched in the meeting with the stakeholders and should continue to have the follow up meetings on regular basis in order to share the updates. Memorandum of Understanding should be developed among stakeholders for daily data-sharing interface between LMIS and revised DHIS. Stakeholders should be engaged with diverse expertise of clinical health practitioner, pharmacist and statistician representing all the level of health system to develop a knowledge base and make it available on the dashboard. 2. During the consultation with the stakeholders, key performance indicators should be finalized and should be regularly monitored. This can be more helpful for further investigation and integration. 3. In integrated LMIS and DHIS, STG should be incorporated to develop an automated morbidity based method for medicines forecasting. 4. The process of registration of Amoxicillin DT and Copackaging of Lo-ORS and Zinc DT with DRAP should consider the helpful provision of law; as stated in 2. (v) and 2. (ix). The minutes of 265th meeting of Registration Board case no. 3 i.e. registration of 7.1% chlorhexidine digluconate gel. On submission of satisfactory documents by the firm 7.1% Chlorhexidine digluconate gel has been registered. United States Pharmacopeia (Pakistan) should be involved in the process of registration. It will be helpful for the firm to