METHODOLOGY SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 22 METHODOLOGY 03 The methodology of assessment is mixed analysis that is quantitative and qualitative analysis. The quantitative analysis is based upon the Logistics System Assessment Tool (LSAT) developed by USAID Deliver Project and recommended by WHO8 for the assessment of logistics / supply chain management of medicines. As per the recommendation of LSAT for devolved health system, all provinces to be studied should be assessed separately; with recommended modifications of health service delivery levels, as described in the tool. The qualitative analysis is semi structured in-depth interviews based upon the desk review. The provincial level assessment has been conducted for Sindh, Punjab, Baluchistan, KP and FATA. The district and sub-district level assessment has been conducted only for Sindh and Punjab because the project funding was for these two provinces. The other provinces were assessed for advocacy purpose. The details of the methodology is as follows 3.1 Phase I: Methodology for Desk review The methodology adopted for the extraction of research papers from internet was as follows TABLE 1: Methodology of Desk Review Online Search Search Terms Research Inclusion Criteria Electronic databases searched: PubMed, Cochrane, Cinahal, WHOLIS, MSH, ELDIS, Google Scholar. Websites searched: Provincial Departments of Health, WHO Pakistan, WHO-EMRO and Pakistan Consumer Protection Network. Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Management, Drug Supply and Pakistan, Rationale Drug Use and Pakistan; Drug Financing and Pakistan; Drug Affordability and Pakistan; Drug Access and Pakistan; Drug Availability and Pakistan; Drug Policy and Pakistan; Pharmaceutical Policy and Pakistan. Searches conducted during last five years period. Primary research studies, reviews, case reports. Excluded: opinion pieces, commentary articles, bioefficacy studies. Grey Literature: Policy Acts, Policy Guidelines, Policy or strategic frameworks, National formulary. 8World Health Organization. (2010). Monitoring the building blocks of health systems: a handbook of indicators and their measurement strategies (p. 20). Geneva: World Health Organization. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 23 Using the PubcMed search engine “Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Management” 144 results were found, six from Cinahal and operational framework from WHOLIS. Abstracts and summary reports were reviewed. There were 86 studies that were further shortlisted for detailed study. Free full text researches and documents shared by government in their websites were studied and referred in the desk review. Complete desk review and references are shared in Annex 1. 3.2 Phase II: Methodology of Data Collection The indicators for the assessment have been divided into following levels ■