diseases in the ﬁrst two months of life, including from diarrhoea, than those who are breastfed.26 MICRONUTRIENT SUPPLEMENTATION Vitamin A supplementation is a critical preventive measure, and studies have shown mortality reductions ranging from 19 per cent to 54 per cent in children receiving supplements.27 This reduction is associated in large part with declines in deaths due to diarrhoeal diseases and measles. Vitamin A supplementation has also been shown to reduce the duration, severity and complications associated with diarrhoea.28 Adequate zinc intake among children is critical for normal growth and development. Recent supplementation trials have shown that adequate zinc leads to a substantial reduction in childhood diarrhoea cases.29 A solution of oral rehydration salts (ORS) is a simple, inexpensive and life-saving remedy that prevents dehydration among children with diarrhoea. How does it work? In a healthy child, the small intestines absorb water and electrolytes from the digestive tract so that these nutrientrich ﬂuids may be transported to other parts of the body through the bloodstream. In a sick child, diarrhoeacausing pathogens damage the intestines – causing an excessive amount of water and electrolytes to be secreted rather than being absorbed. When the ORS solution reaches the small intestines, the sodium and glucose in the mixture are transported together across the lining of the intestines, and the sodium, which is now in higher concentrations in the intestines, promotes water absorption back into the body from the gut. The discovery that sodium and glucose are transported together across the small intestines through a co-transport mechanism has been called “potentially the most important medical advance of the 20th century.”35 The development of ORS is a direct result of this discovery. Sources: –, ‘Water with Sugar and Salt’, The Lancet, vol. 312, no. 8084, 1978, pp. 300-301; Rehydration.org, ‘Why is Rehydration so Important and How it Works to Save Children’s Lives’, <http ://rehydrate.org/rehydration>, accessed June 2009. BOX 5 Oral rehydration salts: One of the most important medical advances of the 20th century Diarrhoeal diseases: The basics 2 15 How is diarrhoea diagnosed? Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of childhood diarrhoea are set out in the Integrated Management of Childhood Illness handbook.33 Diagnosis is based on clinical symptoms, including the extent of dehydration, the type of diarrhoea exhibited, whether blood is visible in the stool, and the duration of the diarrhoea episode. Treatment regimens diﬀer based on the outcomes of this clinical assessment. Microbiological