health facilities has shown many deficiencies in which push system of supplies was mostly observed. The medicines were distributed, based on the availability and request from HFs, rather than need. Most of the record keeping was manual and even the manual records were not fully updated. The concept and importance of bin cards were not fully understood. In some health facilities, either these bin cards were missing and in some, if available, were not updated. BHU Jaffer e Teyar of District Karachi Malir, stock register was not updated for Amoxicillin suspension. Moreover, the requisition for medicines was submitted with wrong information of physical quantities. In medicines requisition, stock in hand was reported as zero while physically bottles of Amoxicillin suspension were present in the health facility. In Punjab, minimum stock level of tracer medicines for health facility has been established for the monitoring of MEAs which was considered as stock sufficient for next 45 days. The calculation for the average monthly consumption, was not dealing with all the WHO recommendation; but it helped in improving the availability of the stock in health facilities. The inventory control is required to balance the minimum and maximum stock levels. It was also reported that the excess stock of Amoxicillin suspension was distributed from Muzaffarghar. The e-procurement system, total maximum limit for the district was defined; because if the procurement exceeded the forecasted quantities, it was not possible to manage it with available budgets. In National program, and IRMNCH & NP, the minimum and maximum levels were demarcated. The Specialized healthcare SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 43 & Medical Education department has established its own medicines inventory management software, which gives the real time data of the health facilities under its supervision. The PPP: The holding cost was managed by increasing the number of supply; which not only saved the holding and procurement cost but also the distribution or transportation cost. It provided sufficient space to organize the stocks in small store of public health facilities, especially in BHUS. STOCK AVAILABILITY STATUS AT THE HEALTH FACILITIES DURING ASSESSMENT: Any health facility that faced even a single day of stock out during one year period was considered as stock out. Even, at the time of assessment, the stocks were available but during one year period health facility faced the condition of stock out was reported under the stock out. It has been observed that