the other hand, dispersible tablets are usually packed in blisters (aluminium /PVC) or strips (aluminium), which are lighter in weight and packing is prone to breakage unlike suspension bottles. Manufacturer guarantees the stability of the dispersible tablet in this primary packaging, as they are less physical resistance than regular tablets, and more sensitive to moisture and humidity. Hence dispersible tablets have to be unpacked right before consumption because of its physical characteristics. Suspension form can be stored at room temperature but once reconstituted requires refrigeration at 2-8 °C for not more than 14 days while dispersible tablets are stored at room temperature, without any need for refrigeration, including lesser storage space. Transportation of dispersible tablets is more convenient due to its weight, easier and cheaper because of smaller volume compared to bottles of Suspension/ Syrup. Based on WHO price lists, dispersible tablets are more cost saving compared to suspensions i.e. dispersible tablet is $ 0.22 and suspension is vs. $ 0.8 (WHO 2010b). WHO and UNICEF in 2004, jointly recommended zinc treatment for 10–14 days, in addition to low-osmolarity ORS, as an adjunct therapy that reduces the duration and severity of a Diarrhea episode and the likelihood of subsequent infections in the two to three months following treatment. The same is evident from PDHS 2017-18, where findings revealed that zinc was given to 13% of children under 5 years for treatment of diarrhea. However, some Midterm Evaluation Report 44 provincial and urban/rural disparities were also observed regarding zinc for treatment of diarrhea, for instance 15.4% children were given zinc in Sindh (10% in urban and 22.1% in rural) and 13% children in Punjab (15.9% in urban and 11.7% in rural). UNICEF and WHO recommends low-osmolarity ORS for treatment of Diarrhea, as the earlier composition of ORS does not reduce stool output or duration of Diarrhea. The reduced osmolarity of ORS solution is to avoid possible adverse effects of hyper-tonicity on net fluid absorption. This was done by reducing the solution's glucose and salt (NaCl) concentrations (WHO, 2002). Pulse Oximeter is a small device that stands as the standard for detection of hypoxemia in children at healthcare facilities, and in guiding whether children need oxygen support or not. However, the fragility and replacement of the probe is another determining factor. The delicate probes need to be replaced every year and sometimes, even before due to their easily damageable nature (Stop Pneumonia,