oxygen and it appeared that the reason was affordability. GPs frequently cited that the severe cases were referred to a higher public health facility. Most GPs claimed to be quite sympathetic towards their patients and said that they try to be considerate and corporate with them as much as possible. Most of them expressed that they prescribed inexpensive medicines, which were easily available. A GP from Sindh elaborated, “I provide free treatment to the poor patients if they cannot afford the treatment and some of medicines.” Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 92 Trainings of GPs This section is a discussion on issues that are relevant to trainings of GPs. It highlights the need for trainings and those who should be responsible for conducting them. All GPs unanimously agreed that there is a need for trainings and that it would facilitate them and their staff to a great extent. Just a few GPs revealed that they had been provided with some sort of trainings; still none of the GPs said that there had been any refresher training. DHDC and IMNCI trainings got mentioned. However, majority of the GPs were not provided with any training. The willingness to attend these trainings was quite high among the GPs. Common suggestions for the venue was at district level or at THQ. Nonetheless, GPs were willing to attend the trainings regardless of where they would be held. Most of the GPs emphasized the need for trainings to keep them updated with the latest developments in the field. A GP from Sindh elaborated, “We have done MBBS in 1996-97… now treatment approaches have changed and we must know about them.” Apart from regular trainings, the quality of the training was also very important. A GP from Punjab who had received such training was not satisfied with its quality, “I found shortcoming in such trainings in terms of communications skills.” One third of the GPs said that they were provided with guidelines and protocols (1 GP from Punjab, 4 from Sindh). The remaining GPs were either at least aware of the existence of such protocols or were totally unaware. Those who were completely unaware used their experience in treating patients. Most of the GPs were of the opinion that a need existed for training for the correct and appropriate use of protocols. The practicality of the Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 93 use of protocols was also