recruited, organized, trained and supervised by Contech, which was also be responsible for supervision, transportation and logistics of team movements, and their subsequent payments. 3.5.8 Training of Field Staff The field training was conducted at the highest professional level and in a systematic manner that ensured timely and quality completion of data collection exercise within the stipulated time. This included finalization of field plans, availability of printed material, training guide and nametags etc. Specific attention was paid to ensure that training environment is conducive, without disturbance, with sufficient seating arrangements, keeping participants, trainers and field monitors in consideration. A team of trainers consisting of 2 males and 4 females conducted the three-day training sessions. A detailed training manual for the field teams was prepared with clear instructions and guidelines, which was distributed among the data collectors. This training guide covered topics Midterm Evaluation Report 34 including evaluation protocols, how to approach the concerned participants, how and when to probe, ethical requirements, filling of tools and recording necessary information while ensuring completeness and quality. This document was easily referred to in case of any confusion faced in the field. Ethical considerations including confidentiality, informed consent, privacy and anonymity were incorporated in the training sessions. Specific attention was paid to ensure that data collectors had a clear idea of the objectives of evaluation so that they were aware when to elicit information. Training topics included: • Purpose of evaluation and its goals and objectives; • Methodology and technique; • Ethical requirements; • Techniques of filling out tools; and • Field simulation Data collection teams were trained in the following two levels in order to achieve uniform standards while ensuring quality: • One day training of technical team members for visits/consultations at federal/provincial level KIIs was conducted. • A 3-day training of field team at a central level training workshop for enumerators and sociologists (moderators/note-takers) conducted in Lahore for district specific KIIs, FGDs, case studies and districts’ offices visits. 3.5.9 Development of Field Micro-plans Followed by the field simulation activity, detailed micro-plans were developed on the last day of training, which was shared with the monitoring and evaluation teams. The micro-plan entailed day-to-day data collection activities of each field team, ensuring that the provided trainings were put to practical use and that the data collection was being carried out in the required manner. Micro-plans facilitated the monitoring of data collection activities in the