by the L10K Project in Ethiopia In some settings, the introduction of CCM has led to increased curative services for childhood illness. However, the performance and quality of most child health services is poor, thus limiting good health outcomes. The L10K Project in Ethiopia developed an approach called Participatory Community Quality Improvement (PCQI) to improve quality and accessibility of health care through greater involvement of the community and HEWs. The PCQI ensures continuous quality improvement through a cyclical process. First, the community members identify the main bottlenecks and barriers to the accessibility and quality of services. Second, they suggest possible adjustments and advances in these problem areas and take responsibility for monitoring and targeting improvements of access to services and quality of service provision. HEWs also meet quarterly to discuss these issues. Representatives from these different groups share their findings through a “Bridging the Gap” workshop, establish a quality improvement team and develop a clear plan of action to improve access to and quality of services provided. In one year of implementation of PCQI, a number of positive changes have been observed. Some of the barriers to accessibility and quality of care identified and addressed include: harmful traditional beliefs, lack of access to services by families, lack of services available at night and HEWs’ insufficient practical experience. Examples of community-driven initiatives include firm commitment to the maintenance and improvement of roads leading to clinics, construction of HEW lodgings near health facilities to facilitate the provision of emergency services during the night, and pooling of funds to buy supplies for the health posts to help improve quality of care. Source: Adapted from L10K Policy Brief, Vol. 2 Participatory Community Quality Improvement Approach (PCQI) in Ethiopia http://l10k.jsi.com/ Resources/policy_briefs.htm accessed February 14, 2013. Delivering more impact with lower costs In many places, resources for health are not increasing as rapidly as needed, especially where demand generation efforts are in place. This situation can limit efforts to deliver services, including those to prevent, protect and treat pneumonia and diarrhoea in an equitable manner. Allocating resources more effectively requires making decisions based on local epidemiology and burden of disease estimates, identifying priority interventions, understanding the resources available and where they can be best used, and taking advantage of new tools. For example, OneHealth and Marginal Budgeting for Bottlenecks are analytical tools for evidence-based health policy, planning, costing and budgeting at country level. These tools help