widespread in their catchment areas, which included skin allergies, malaria, respiratory tract infections and dysentery. A facility in-charge in Punjab explained that “…almost 50% children suffering from upper respiratory tract infections, 15% suffering from skin allergies and 20% are suffering from Diarrhea, (they) are brought to this facility. The cases of Pneumonia are very rare these days.” Most patients came from poor households; many did not have access to basic facilities, with lack of cleanliness being the biggest concern. Poor standard of living, low literacy rates and impure/contaminated water were held responsible by the facility in-charges as major hazards of such living conditions. A parent from Punjab complained, “There is unavailability of pure/clean water for drinking and community uses same contaminated water for cooking meals, washing utensils and hands, causing disease.” Facility in-charges were aware of this reality, and many even held it responsible as the primary component of the community’s susceptibility to diseases. A facility in-charge from Sindh asserted, “The (low) literacy rate is also one of the main factors behind spread of such diseases. The community in the catchment area is not aware about the practice of hygiene and how infections are spread.” A facility in-charge from Punjab expressed the need for health awareness at community level, “… People are very poor and cannot afford good living standards…Health information sessions should be arranged to give awareness to community about nutrition and hygienic conditions.” 4.2.1.1 Common Forms of Treatment With reference to accessing treatment, facility in-charges most frequently mentioned self-treatment, quack doctors and allopathic treatment. Hospitals were often stated as the last resort with many patients only visiting after being dissatisfied with other alternatives. Self-treatment – Mostly facility in-charges believed self-treatment to be a popular form of treatment, often being the first step taken by the patient for combatting disease. This could largely be attributed to the fact that many people lived far away from proper health facilities with transport being a big concern. A facility in-charge from Sindh reflected, “..Mostly people try to get cured through self-medication. If they fail, then they head towards health facilities.” However, a facility in-charge from Sindh had a different perspective on self-treatment and assumed it could lead to adverse health effects, further aggravating the condition of the patients. According to him, “Severe Diarrhea and Pneumonia is caused by the self-medication. About 30% people took tablets from market and assumed them to be