for training and other related matters. Though the provincial program don’t have strong sanctions mechanism to implement the technical inputs but still the relationship is strong enough to implement the desired interventions. Change in prescribing behaviour in the private sector requires a multi-pronged strategy and different stakeholders. It requires involving healthcare commission, professional bodies of the healthcare providers, pharmaceutical corporations and some other relevant factors. This interaction and relationship patterns represent a certain challenge. Private sector represents a huge share of the health system. However, there are no concrete accountability patterns for interventions in the private sector. For example Punjab healthcare commission has managed to register more than 50 per cent of private healthcare establishments. Now it’s the time for PHC to take actions for ensuring compliance of standards. Following recommendations are proposed to fast-track achievement of the outcome 1. It is imperative that the health department takes a strong joint ownership with the MNCH program for the implementation of this project. A strong advocacy must be conducted simultaneously with the both MNCH program and the health department. The inputs from the MNCH program regarding the IMNCI training, change of curriculum must Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 180 be implemented by the Health Departments. It is therefore imperative that the health department must take a joint ownership to make sure that the trainings are in place. 2. It is recommended to take on board the academic institutions to impart training related to pneumonia and diarrhea to every medical student in a mandatory way. 3. Changing prescribing behaviour of the medical officers working in the public sector will require strong coordinated efforts. Health department will impart trainings at two levels. Before the induction of every medical officer, there should be a training program which comprehensively addresses the training needs of pneumonia and diarrhea and then a refresher is conducted after every two years. 4. On the other hand, changing the prescribing behaviour of the private practitioners will need a lot of efforts. The private practitioners play a main role in the treatment of pneumonia and diarrhea. Punjab healthcare commission has been established with the mandate of regulating the healthcare establishments in the Punjab province. Sindh on the other hand is in the process of establishing the healthcare commission. According to the Punjab healthcare commission, currently there are around 13000 private practitioners in the province and they have been able to register