brief of evaluation objectives ⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 1 Do the national/provincial/ policies/strategies and guidelines incorporate the global recommendations for pneumonia and diarrhea? Are these guidelines being implemented at your facilities? Midterm Evaluation Report 97 2 Have the policies on community case management for pneumonia and diarrhea updated according to the global recommendations (World Health Organization (WHO)/Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD)? 3 Has UNICEF provided any technical support to national and provincial governments for updating/revising the following in alignment with GAPPD: a. Child survival related policies/strategies in terms of updating of management guidelines (IMNCI) b. Essential medicines lists with inclusion of Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, LORS and Zinc c. Minimum Service Delivery Package (MSDP) i. Have these been endorsed by TWG, Child Survival and the Government through consensus? ii. Was there any orientation carried out? iii. Is it being implemented? 4 Has UNICEF’s P&D project facilitated the Government in strengthening of logistics system and in updating the procurement lists (MSDP and PC-1s) including ARI Timers, Pulse Oximeters and Oxygen for appropriate levels of service delivery? d. Have these been endorsed by TWG, Child Survival and the Government through consensus? e. Was there any orientation carried out? f. Is it being implemented? Has the supply chain management system updated according to the required commodities? g. How is the Government ensuring supply of pneumonia & diarrhea commodities from DoH and district health offices downstream to facility levels? 5 Has UNICEF P&D project provided any support in strengthening of comprehensive supply chain management system including forecasting, procurement, distribution, real time stock maintenance, and warehousing involving different programmes and their linkage with DHIS? 6 UNICEF P&D project provided any technical assistance to DoH/DHIS cell for updating of DHIS software and tools and implementing recommendations for its linking with LMIS and for: h. Printing and dissemination of revised DHIS tools i. Orientation of master trainers (provincial level) and relevant health facility staff (selected district level) on revised DHIS tools 7 What coordination mechanism exist for management of diarrhea and pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan at national level, e.g. Child Survival Groups, Technical Working Group? 8.Are the community IMNCI training manuals revised? Who was responsible for their revision? Has UNICEF provided technical assistance for the revision? Midterm Evaluation Report 98 c. Have these been endorsed by Technical Working Group, Child Survival Group or/and the Government