Zinc Sulphate for the treatment of diarrhoea and Amoxicillin suspension for the treatment of pneumonia amongst private sector general practitioners Role of the private sector is quite sufficient in Pakistan. The government should therefore, promote the use of standard treatment guidelines, as recommended by WHO, amongst private sector general physicians for the treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia. 4.2. Formulation of a comprehensive policy incorporating prevention, treatment and behaviour change elements While budgetary gap analysis is an important factor to consider for improving service delivery, a more holistic policy definition is suggested to enhance efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public money. Reduction of under 5 mortality and morbidity requires a policy framework taking into account the prevention, treatment and behavioural change aspects. This will ensure a multi-facet approach involving different sectors (e.g. education, hygiene, water and sanitation, health, economic prosperity, etc.) that use public funds. 4.3. Action Plans and Specific Tasks Based on the report findings, and recommendations, the following action plan is recommended: 28 Table 16: Action Plan Activities in the Action Plan Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun 1. Improvement in the method of Forecasting Procurement of Medicines 1.1 Trainings on medicines forecasting methods 1.2 Trainings on determination of district action plans and linkage with budgets 2. An early completion of Central Rate Contracts 3. Procurement and distribution system in case of vertical health programmes 3.1 Review of standard supply 3.2 Review of procurement and distribution system including timelines required 4. An increase of budget on procurement of medicines for treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia 4.1 Discussions with health departments and finance departments on increase in budget for commodities for treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia 4.2 Discussions on co-packaged (ORS and Zinc) procurements 5. Improvement in budget management practices 6. Development of IT systems 6.1 Presentation of IT systems of Punjab to other provincial governments 6.2 Discussions with provinces on adoption of similar systems 7. Determination of policy on reduction of out-of-pocket expenditure 7.1 Determination of policy on universal health coverage 8. Pre-budget consultative sessions on diarrhoea and pneumonia commodities 8.1 With provincial departments of health and district health officials 8.2 With provincial finance departments 8.3 With local parliamentarians 29 Table 17: Sindh Province Availability of Stocks in Districts visited during the Field Study June 2017 District Health Facility ORS Amoxicillin syrup Zinc Syrup Sukkur / Sukkur EDOH stock Available Available Available MNCH