No C1 Oxygen cylinder C2 Oxygen flow meter C3 Pulse oximeter C4 ARI timer C5 Ambo bag (For Child) C6 Nebulizer C7 ILR to maintain cold chain C8 Supplies to mix and dispense Low-Osmolarity ORS (e.g. cup) C9 Source of clean drinking water C10 Ambulance • ILR (Ice Lined Refrigerator) • LORS (Low-Osmolarity Oral Rehydration Solution) D Drugs for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Treatment (Mark ü for available and not available status of drugs but for stock outs write the number of months for which medicine was not available) Drugs for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Treatment Current status Stock Outs * (July 2018 June 2019) Available Not Available/Expire d D1 Syrup Amoxicillin D2 Amoxicillin Dispersible Tablets (DT) D3 Injection Amoxicillin Midterm Evaluation Report 106 D Drugs for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Treatment (Mark ü for available and not available status of drugs but for stock outs write the number of months for which medicine was not available) Drugs for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Treatment Current status Stock Outs * (July 2018 June 2019) Available Not Available/Expire d D4 Pneumococcal Vaccine D5 Syrup Zinc D6 Zinc Dispersible Tablet (DT*) D7 LORS packets D8 LORS-Zinc Co-packaging D9 Ringer lactate Solution D10 0.45% Normal Saline/ Dextrose Saline • DT (Dispersible tablet) • Note: Please check the Stock register (medicines/supplies) for stock outs and write number of months for mentioned period E Record keeping and Reporting (DHIS) (Mark ü for yes or No) Material Available Updated Yes No Yes No E1 OPD Register E2 In-patients Register (RHC) E3 Stock Register (Medicine/Supplies) E4 Stock Register (Equipment/Furniture) E5 PHC Facility Monthly Report Form E6 Procedures Manual for DHIS/MIS • OPD (Out-patient Department) • RHC (Rural Health Centre) • PHC (Primary Health Care) • DHIS (District Health Information System) 1. I‘d like to know about main childhood related illnesses in the catchment area of your facility. Can you please comment on the caseload of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Probes: Midterm Evaluation Report 107 i. About what proportion of children (less than 5 years) is brought to this facility that suffers from Pneumonia and Diarrhea? ii. What type of treatment approach or professional help is commonly preferred in the community for these diseases (e.g. self-treatment, traditional healer, homeopathic, allopathic)? 2. I would like to know about the skill/competence of the staff at your facility for managing childhood illnesses? Can you please tell us about any training(s) received during the service for dealing such