Specific objectives were to: • Identify gaps in existing policies relevant to Child Survival Strategies in the context of GAPPD • Assess the prescribing behaviours and treatment approaches among public and private sector service providers and the LHW program • Recommend steps for inclusion of pneumonia and diarrhea commodities into essential medicine lists, procurement lists based on evidence-based briefing papers and policy notes including GAPPD on the benefits of Amoxicillin-DT, Zinc-DT, co-packaged ORS and Zinc, Pulse Oximeters, and Oxygen • Map key stakeholders and activists at all levels; and • Draft a framework to define the roles and responsibilities of key implementing stakeholders for child survival groups (CSGs). It was a cross-sectional study that primarily involved desk reviews and qualitative research. Research was conducted at federal level and also in provinces of Punjab and Sindh. Provincial capitals along with two districts of Punjab (Pakpattan and Bahawalnagar) and three districts of Sindh (Tharparkar, Shikarpur, and Tando Muhammad Khan) were covered. Primary data was collected through in-depth interviews as well as focus group discussions conducted with officials at policy and strategy development level (representatives from MNHSR&C, DRAP, provincial health departments; health sector reform units; IRMNCH/MNCH and LHW programmes; donors and development partners); district managers (CEO/DHO, Landscape Analysis for Policy Translation and Commodity Access in Pakistan vi DHIS Coordinator); health-service providers (health providers at both public and private facilities, outreach field staff, in-charges of medical stores); service-users (parents/guardians of children receiving services for pneumonia and diarrhea at both public and private health facilities). In total 112 in-depth interviews and 5 focus group discussions were conducted. The research findings have been arranged into policy environment, clinical management, pharmaceutical feasibility and accountability framework. Findings revealed that for facilitating commodity access, a robust policy change is required, which would lay the necessary foundations for translating policy into operational processes. After the eighteenth amendment, the provincial health departments developed their own health sector strategies, which are on the verge of completing the terms for which they were drafted and will be reviewed in the next year. This provides an opportunity to incorporate the necessary policy changes required to enhance the focus on morbidity and mortality in children due to pneumonia and diarrhea. It is pertinent to mention here that the health department of Sindh has already developed a draft of Child Survival Strategy highlighting issues concerning child health. Moreover, Sindh and Punjab have made some progress by