Commodity Access 25 IV therapy. With regard to reduced stool output and reduced vomiting, this benefit may be somewhat greater for solutions with <75 mEq/l sodium (210-260 mOsm/l) than for a solution with 75 mEq/l sodium (245 mOsm/l). However, in terms of reduced need for unscheduled IV therapy, the benefit was similar for solutions with 75 mEq/l sodium (245 mOsm/l) and for those with <75 mEq/l sodium (210-260 mOsm/l) (WHO & UNICEF, 2002). Monograph of low osmolarity ORs is published in Fourth edition of the International Pharmacopoeia, this revised monograph provides, quality specifications for the reduced osmolarity formula ORS, recommended by WHO and UNICEF (WHO, n.d). Zinc Dispersible Tablets Dispersible tablets are uncoated or film-coated tablets that can be dispersed in liquid it usually disintegrate within three minutes when put in water or a small amount of breast milk. Zinc plays a critical role in overall health and development of infants and young children but among children of under developed and developing countries its deficiencies are wide spread. During diarrheal episodes zinc further depletes therefore, replacing this important micronutrient is essential for child recovery. WHO and UNICEF recommend a daily dosage of 20 mg of zinc supplements for 10 days for children suffering with diarrhea and 10 mg for infants under six months (Bhutta et al, 2000). WHO and UNICEF in 2004, jointly recommended zinc treatment for 10–14 days, in addition to low-osmolarity ORS, as an adjunct therapy that reduces the duration and severity of a diarrhea episode and the likelihood of subsequent infections in the two to three months following treatment. This recommendation is based on Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 26 scientific consensus and recognition that zinc and low-osmolarity ORS together can reduce mortality due to diarrhea (Black, 2003). Questions on zinc usage were recently added to household surveys. UNICEF and its partners are working closely with manufacturers to increase zinc availability. UNICEF is the largest buyer of zinc tablets, accounting for over 80 per cent of international procurement. UNICEF’s zinc procurement began in 2006 and has increased substantially since. However, despite this progress, global zinc supply is dismally low compared with global need. In Pakistan use of zinc supplement with ORS for treatment of diarrhea is very low as show in PDHS, 2013. Zinc Production Group indicates the prescribed amount of active ingredient in a single tablet or in a specified volume of an oral solution. Tablets