growth of mass media have brought the issues of public health to the national debate. Furthermore, increased development assistance from the development partners in the last decade has tremendously increased the focus on public health. Resultantly, there has been an enhanced focus on the accountability of the health services. One important example is the stock-take by the Chief Minister of Punjab (largest province of Pakistan by population). Stock take requires every district officer health of the Punjab province to be answerable for the progress on the prioritized areas on the monthly basis to the office of the secretary. Chief Minister himself takes the stock take on quarterly basis. This one exercise has dramatically improved the health system on certain indicators. It therefore becomes important that a representative from the SMU is made part of the CSG and subsequently the indicators related to the Pneumonia and Diarrhea are included in the Chief Minister’s Health road map and stocktake. Sindh has made significant progress as far as necessary policy change is concerned. The draft of New Born Survival strategy is already pending approval. The essential medicine list already contains new medicines in the term “preferable”. Health information systems are being updated. However it is worth mentioning that there 96 is no structure like CM-SMU in Sindh, it therefore becomes important that the DGHS puts in place a strong monitoring system. A dedicated focal person for monitoring progress on Pneumonia and Diarrhea will help to keep track of the progress. Furthermore following factors are necessary for successful implementation of accountability for the desired outcomes (WHO, 2015). 1. Availability of these commodities entails a lot of commitment and funnelling of efforts at the top level of all stakeholders involved. It is important that secretaries, program directors, CEOs and other top managers are committed to advancing the culture of accountability by routinely setting the tone, leading by example, setting clear goals, roles and responsibilities and articulating expectations. It is highly important that accountability is enforced and encouraged from offices of the Secretaries of all national and provincial health departments. Furthermore, role of Director Generals of Health services at both Federal and provincial levels is very crucial in a number of ways. The country and provincial level leadership of development partners like WHO and UNICEF must use their influence to generate necessary efforts required from stakeholders. Furthermore, their role becomes highly important in keeping the project