a member from the health secretariat. An overwhelming finding was that those projects have more success rates where they are backed by bureaucracy. Furthermore it was found out that the recent IT based communication platforms have increased the communication between the stakeholders. These platforms have increased the connectivity of the provincial management with the district health offices. One manager stated, “Mostly we are receiving orders on Whatsapp and we are Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 51 required to submit our response after the compliance of orders.” Furthermore, the support by the UNICEF was found out to be a major pushing force required to bring the desired change. Focus of Policy & Strategies In spite of being aware that diarrhea and pneumonia are major killers of children, it was reported that no defined child health policy existed at any governance level. However, the Government of Sindh has taken the lead and drafted ‘New Born Survival Strategy’ keeping Sindh Health Sector Strategy as a base document. Some key interventions proposed in Draft ‘Child Health Strategy of Sindh’ are’ Sick new born care units; Under 5 care units; Helping baby breathing training; Infection prevention; Use of Chlorhexidine; Kangaroo mother interventions. Some of these activities such as Chlorhexidine and kangaroo care have already been initiated through the support of developing partners. It was informed that the Sindh government has notified the establishment of Under 5 Clinics in 2012, but this idea couldn’t be turned into reality until now .It was told that the health department has now started the process of establishing Under 5 care units in the DHQ hospitals only to be extended down to the hierarchies later on. System experts cited lack of focus on the child survival as a reason for drafting a separate strategy. According to a provincial manager, “The least and the best you can do to get the Government’s focus on the child survival is that you can include in the Provincial Strategy. By this you not only tunnel the Government’s attention towards the child survival sooner or later, but you also pave the way for a smooth transition for the Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 52 interventions in the finance and the planning and development departments of the government”. A provincial manager in the Sindh Health department stressed the need of a robust office of the Director General Health Services in these words: “The post of Director