that hospital…” Many parents also complained that that accessibility of doctors and other medical services should be 24 hours. Long Waiting Time – Long waiting time before seeing the doctor was a big cause of concern for majority of parents. Many expressed their frustration about crowded spaces and long waiting lines before getting medical care. A typical response of the parents was, “…there is too much crowd, we have to wait for quite long for our turn.” Another parent reaffirmed, “Peak rush hour sometimes creates problems because during that we have to wait long for our turn. We come here through public transport which adds to the problems.” Contrary to this, a rare response came from a parent in Punjab who claimed, “… we don’t face any difficulty of getting our turn. We also don’t face any difficulty of transportation.” Infrastructure & Support Facilities – Parents complained about the infrastructure and support facilities at the healthcare centers they attended. Lack of space, Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 122 hygiene, clean drinking water and seating arrangement were commonly mentioned by parents. A parent from Punjab vented, “There is no proper sitting arrangement and clean water. Children get agitated due to suffocated environment.” Another parent commented on congested space, “… one thing that creates problem during waiting is insufficient space. It becomes very difficult to wait for our turn during peak hours. They should increase the space.” Satisfaction with Information Provision – There were mixed reviews by parents on whether they were provided sufficient information about diagnosis and followup visits. Some parents were quite satisfied with their experiences while some were utterly disappointed. Satisfied parents claimed that doctors conducted comprehensive check-ups, asked them to revisit for a follow-up examination and also encouraged to return in case of emergencies. A parent from Punjab revealed, “Doctor told us that if fever does not come down, we can use wet swabs. He also told us that after using the prescribed medicine at least for 3 days, we can revisit.” A parent from Sindh also reinforced this view, “Doctor advised us to visit after some days. He also asked to visit for routine checkup. In case of any emergency, I may visit the doctor prior to given time.” On the contrary, it was observed that many doctors weren’t that thorough and almost dismissive at times, failing to elaborate on patients’ symptoms and sending them off with