Sindh discussed the viability of DTs elaborately, “I don’t think that DTs are more effective or suitable than the syrups. Every customer has his/her own perception about DT, but according to my knowledge, DTs are tasteless, do not dissolve properly in water and patients can’t remember their dosage. DTs are also unavailable.” A facility in-charge from Punjab shared, “Community's perception about DTs is not positive as such. They don’t like using DT because it has no taste, it is difficult to swallow and does not smell good.” This resonated with another facility in-charge from Sindh who Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 85 added on the taste aspect, “… sometimes people can refuse DTs because of bitter and unpleasant taste.” Inventory Management of Medicines Mostly facility in-charges claimed that there were no stock outs. A facility in-charge from Sindh maintained, “…there is no stock out as such. If there is any stock out, we inform to the District Health Officer about the required medicine.” However, majority shared their grievances in this regard and suggested how the inventory management of the medicines could be improved. Inadequacy of Budget Many facility in-charges complained of inadequate budget and a need for an increase. A facility in-charge from Punjab vented, “… Supplies are not according to the demand but the available budget... Overall budget of medicines should be increased. LP budget which is 5 lakh yearly should also be increased.” Some facility in-charges mentioned that due to limited budget, patients were asked to buy medicines from elsewhere and some of them could not afford the purchase. Hence, facility in-charges insisted that government should increase the budget so everyone could avail the free service. A facility in-charge from Sindh reflected, “In case of stock out we prescribe the medicine to be purchased from elsewhere and patients have even screamed at us as to why haven’t we arranged for the free medicines? Budget should be increased, quality of medicines should be improved and the delivery process of the medicines should be made fast and prompt.” Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 86 Undersupply of Medicines Most of the facility in-charges denied being provided with adequate stock of medicines to meet the demand. They believed that their estimations, patterns of diseases and seasons should be kept under consideration while providing supplies. They held limited budget responsible for insufficient supplies. Some of the responses categorically mentioned that they were provided