the end of this project. First outcome, being aimed is the “Policy Change”. It has been achieved by updating existing national/provincial policies and guidelines in line with global recommendations WHO and GAPPD for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan. There was an agreement among the respondents at policy level that Project objectives are highly consistent with Pakistan’s national vision and priorities for child health. UNICEF, role has been acknowledged for supporting consultations with national and provincial governments for updating and revising guidelines in line with GAPPD. The officials agreed that a strong coordination mechanism exists within the RMNCH including stakeholders from Federal & Provincial Governments, UN Agencies (WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA), PPA & the Private sectors. A respondent explained that, “They convene meetings at National level on quarterly basis.” Technical support from Groups like Technical working groups and Child Survival groups were mentioned. Child Survival groups are empowered, committed and capable of implementing the interventions. UNICEF has been able to translate policies through transformation of revised and updated Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment guidelines into relevant action plans by all provincial/areas health departments in Pakistan. Respondents at federal and provincial policy levels shared their insights on the service delivery of the public sector health facilities. There EQ: How well the resources, both human and financial, been managed to ensure timely, attainment of results? EQ: To what extent the programme learned and evolved over the 2 years? Midterm Evaluation Report 57 was a consensus of opinion among the policy makers that national/provincial/ policies/strategies and guidelines incorporate the global recommendations for Pneumonia and Diarrhea. UNICEF, role was applauded by majority of policymakers to help draft, endorse, print the revised IMNCI manuals. It was revealed by policy makers in both Punjab and Sindh that provincial EMLs and procurement lists have been updated to include the new commodities and devices for management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. In Punjab, MSDPs have been updated to include the new commodities while in Sindh; the MSDPs are under revision as per GAPDD recommendations. Health Information Systems have been updated and strengthened to reflect the recommended commodities. A common opinion exists among the policy makers that UNICEF, provides support for the updating of DHIS software and tools and in the establishment of DHISII and its linkages with LMIS. Last but not the least, Knowledge Management through translation of lessons learned from this investment to other settings/broader