Asia, where the rotavirus burden is greatest, should be an international priority. ■ Develop and implement behaviour change interventions, such as face-to-face counselling, to encourage exclusive breastfeeding. ■ Ensure sustained high levels of vitamin A supplementation, such as by combining its delivery, where eﬀective, with other high-impact health and nutrition interventions. ■ Apply results of existing consumer research on how to motivate people to wash their hands with soap to increase this beneﬁcial and cost-eﬀective health practice. Handwashing with soap has been shown to reduce the incidence of diarrhoeal disease by over 40 per cent.5 ■ Adopt household water treatment and safe storage systems, such as chlorination and ﬁltration, in both development and emergency situations to support reductions in the number of diarrhoea cases. ■ Implement approaches that increase demand to stop community-wide open defecation. As with handwashing, the new approach employs behavioural triggers, such a pride, shame and disgust, to motivate action, and leads to greater ownership and sustainability of programmes. We know what works to immediately reduce deaths from childhood diarrhoea. We also know what actions will make a lasting contribution to reducing the toll of diarrhoeal diseases for years to come. But strengthened eﬀorts on both fronts must begin right away. The following actions are needed to take the 7-point plan to scale: ■ Mobilize and allocate resources for diarrhoea control. ■ Reinstate diarrhoea prevention and treatment as a cornerstone of community-based primary health care. ■ Ensure that low-osmolarity ORS and zinc are adopted as policy in all countries. ■ Reach every child with eﬀective interventions. ■ Accelerate the provision of basic water and sanitation services. ■ Use innovative strategies to increase the adoption of proven measures against diarrhoea. ■ Change behaviours through community involvement, education and health-promotion activities. ■ Make health systems work to control diarrhoea. ■ Monitor progress at all levels, and make the results count. ■ Make the prevention and treatment of diarrhoea everybody’s business. There is no better time than now. Political momentum is building to address the leading causes of child deaths, including pneumonia and diarrhoea, to achieve measurable gains in child survival. The year 2008 marked the 30th anniversary of the AlmaAta Declaration, with reinvigorated calls to focus on primary health care. Lessening the burden of childhood diarrhoea ﬁts squarely with this emphasis, and is essential for achieving Millennium Development Goal 4: reduce child mortality, whose target date is now only