available in the market (Table 10). Therefore, the out of pocket expenditure around 64% of total health expenditure as per National Health Accounts 2005-06 is estimated at a high level of Rs.3.1 billion (Table 14). 6. In a large number of health facilities visited, ORS, Zinc and Amoxicillin was in stock. There were however, a few health facilities where Zinc was out of stock. It was noted that many lady health workers were out of stock for the past few months. 7. Provinces have some differences in the mode of provision of health services. Sindh has moved towards outsourcing public private partnership (PPP) modal. Procurements are undertaken by these outsourced organisations within single-line budgets. Punjab has formed autonomous organisations (district health authorities, and health facilities management company) and discontinued the PPP mode. Operations of these autonomous organisations, including recruitments and definition of rules and regulations was under review at the time of undertaking this study. 8. Budgetary management practices need improvement especially related to budget planning, formulation, and funds releases. Based on this study the following key recommendations are made: 1. Improvement in the method of Forecasting Procurement of Medicines Currently the forecasting of procurements is based on consumption. Gradually, this system needs to be modified to procurements based on multiple criteria including consumption, morbidity, and out of pocket expenditures. 2. An early completion of Central Rate Contracts Central rate contracts in the provinces should be finalised by July or by maximum by August each year. All Drawing and Disbursing Officers (DDOs) should be notified on timely basis (preferably by August end each year) of the budget available to them, and the finalisation of central rate contracts and procurement guidelines. 3. Procurement and distribution system in case of vertical health programmes Emphasis will need to be placed on sufficient and timely availability of medicines for diarrhoea and pneumonia treatment with the lady health workers. Going forward, as the Federal Government is planning to reduce its funding for vertical health programmes, a way forward plan on financing by provinces will need to be formulated. 4. An increase of budget on procurement of medicines for treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia In Balochistan, KP and FATA, there is an immediate need to enhance budget allocation for medicines especially for treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia as discussions with provincial departments of health revealed that stock outs occur. Special emphasis will need to be placed