in Table 7, whereas proposed short-term immediate actions are as follows: • Build a systems strengthening framework with package of system strengthening interventions at district and provincial levels. • Policy dialogues and roundtables on improving management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea through updated commodities. Private sector engagement – Being a service provider of more than two-thirds of population, the project should establish wider and proactive public-private partnership models. This includes engagement with pharma industry along with Drugs Regulatory Authority of Pakistan, institutions regulating medical, nursing and paramedical education. Private care providers should be reached out through their professional associations. Details of the recommended actions for private sector engagement along with timeline and roles and responsibilities are explained in Table 7, whereas proposed short-term immediate actions are as follows: • Initiate dialogues on opportunities for pharma industry and drugs distribution networks and DRAP • Build stronger collaborations with private sector professional associations Midterm Evaluation Report 70 Advocacy and Communication Concerted advocacy efforts with political leadership for sustained will and commitment is important in policy transformation and reforms. Side by side, continued networking and lobbying with pharmaceutical manufacturers for local production important. The project should engage relevant partners for leveraging resources and coordinated actions. Details of the recommended actions for advocacy and communication along with timeline and roles and responsibilities are explained in Table 7, whereas proposed, short-term immediate actions are as follows: • Develop and implement a mass-media engagement plan focusing on childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea • Develop an advocacy toolkit for policy makers and planners Scaling up and replication – Despite the devolution of health sector, the project is encouraged to scale up the interventions to cover entire Pakistan. Now, after having experience implementation in two of the big provinces of Pakistan, the provincial level interventions will not take much effort for replication. Details of the recommended actions for scaling up and replication along with timeline and roles and responsibilities are explained in Table 7, whereas proposed, short-term immediate actions are as follows: • Cross-sharing of achievements, challenges and lessons learnt among uncovered regions and provinces of Pakistan Detailed recommendations are described in the following table with proposed actions and timeframe indicating responsibility for each actor. Table 7: Recommendations’ Matrix Recommendations Proposed Actions Timelines Primary & Secondary Responsibility ENABLING POLICY ENVIRONMENT Fostering CSG/TWG for harnessing its optimal potential and taking measure for sustenance beyond the project life Institutionalization of CSG/TWG through