products, so there is no role of LMU in selection of products. The activities used to coordinate key logistics tasks among those responsible for logistics were official letters, meeting and work plans. The logistics staff include Logistics Coordinator at provincial level, the Store Keeper at District level, ■ In Punjab IRMNCH & NP has recently modified the SCM system and quantities of medicines for LHWs have increased. In future, Forecasting will be based on the updates of the modified quantities. The distribution of medicines has been planned through courier/ parcel system. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 39 4.2.4 Section IV: Logistics management Information System (LMIS) The logistics Management Information System in Public health facilities was manual and computerized. The computerized system does not show the complete flow of medicines; from the receiving till the consumption. In different provinces different efforts were made to get maximum information of the logistics management. In all provinces DHIS gave the information of stock out status of tracer elements at health facilities. DHIS provides the status of stock out only in yes and no format. This is not sufficient as it should also provide information of stock levels. Due to an incomplete information stock status (functional stock out) were not reported. Vaccine LMIS (vLMIS) was available but data was not updated regularly from all districts. In Sindh manual LMIS was implemented which gave the information of stock procured, issued etc. The sharing of manual stock reports; from HF to the District level was not regular. The health facilities should also be monitored to get actual situation of stocks. In Punjab, Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Department has developed a web based computerized software for medicines inventory management at teaching hospitals, DHQs etc. this software gave real time stock status. The software shares information of status of stock outs, near expiry medicines, stock in hand, stock issuance etc. with all logins. Health Information and Service Delivery Unit has launched Primary and Secondary Healthcare department. At the time of assessment, it was observed that online information including HR, logistics information of vaccines, contraceptive, TB, Information of DHIS etc. were shared at one dashboard. It was reported, that their next phase will be interlinking information from all segments, and making it more useful and result oriented. HISDU has also prepared a “Prescription Management Information System” which will track the medicines record from the receiving till the issuance