the group of participants: ‘As you know Pneumonia and Diarrhea are common causes of deaths among children under age 5. We are conducting a study to learn about of services being provided to treat and manage these diseases among children and would like to know your views in this regards. We Midterm Evaluation Report 96 will start when you are ready, will listen to your view points and ask few questions to clarify some of the things you would talk about.’ May we begin? The guideline contains multiple questions and each question is followed by a set of probes. Please let participants initiate the discussion and use probes only when certain concerns are not addressed by the group 1. What is your role in CSG? What is the role of CSG? 2. What has CSG quarterly meetings contributed in improving Under-5 childhood mortality and morbidity? any specific contribution in improving pneumonia and diarrhea services? 3. What has the overall role of CSG been in improving overall Under-5 childhood mortality and morbidity? any specific role in making pneumonia and diarrhea services better? 4. Do you believe that CSG has been meeting its objectives? What have been the challenges in this achieving these objectives? 5. Does Child Survival Group play any sort of coordination mechanism role for management of diarrhea and pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan at national level? 6. Have any interventions taken place under this Child Survival Group? 7. In your opinion, how can CSG contribute in a more effective manner in improving pneumonia and diarrhea services? 8. What support would CSG require in making this contribution from the Government? 9. What support would CSG require in making this contribution from the development partners and donors? Has the support from Unicef been satisfactory? 10. In your opinion what should be done to improve the quality of pneumonia and diarrhea services at various levels in the health system (policy, district and community levels)? Guides for Implementing Partners Before starting interview, remember to: ⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit ⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of evaluation objectives ⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 1 Do the national/provincial/ policies/strategies and guidelines incorporate the global recommendations for pneumonia and diarrhea? Are these guidelines being implemented at your facilities? Midterm Evaluation Report 97 2 Have the policies on community case management for