the richest families. Regarding U5MR, disparity is even wider with more than 78 percent increase in U5MR between poorest and the richest wealth index quintiles (PDHS, 2018). Considering a significant proportion of Pakistan’s population are poor, ensuring health protection and services for this group remains a daunting challenge. Presence of a flush toilet is strongly associated with reduced risk of infant death, with the infant mortality rate in households having a flush toilet being 22 percent lower than in households without such a toilet (Bennet, 1999). Another dimension is education of the mothers and like rest of the world; educated mothers tend to have lower rates of infant and under-five mortality than illiterate mothers. A pattern is further observed that each incremental year of schooling is associated with significant gains in infant survival. The data indicate that even a few years of mother’s schooling can help improve child survival and significantly lower the death rate of children in their early years of life. Social accessibility can be understood in terms of religious, tribal and cultural barriers. Social and cultural factors may contribute to delay in decision making for health seeking by a sick child. The utilization of appropriate healthcare services for children suffering from Pneumonia and Diarrhea is at large constrained by local customs, practices and prevailing norms. This project attempts to increase child survival, equally for both the female and male child, thus adhering to the principles of gender equality and child rights. While the general project objective is to improve management of childhood Diarrhea and Pneumonia and increase child survival by the end of 2020, soon after initiation of project, UNICEF conducted an ‘Evaluability Study’ and ‘Baseline Landscape Analysis’, aimed to provide insight on barriers and facilitators to policy translation and commodity access in the public and private sectors at national and provincial level (Sindh and Punjab). As mentioned in the TORs of MTE, there was no Theory of Change (TOC) developed at the inception of the project. A retrospective TOC (Figure 1) was developed on the basis of ‘Evaluability Study’ and ‘Landscape Analysis’. As per the given TOC, the Project is expected to achieve the following outcomes, pertaining to policy change, translation and implementation of this project: • Outcome 1: Policy Change Existing national/provincial policies and guidelines are updated in line with global recommendations (GAPPD/WHO) for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan