communication between different stakeholders. It is of high importance that the Child Survival Group serves as a potent platform where the stakeholders can discuss the matters related to the implementation in a conducive environment. Outcomes heavily rely on the synergistic efforts of the different stakeholders. Therefore, a two-way communication mechanism is critically important for achieving the milestones. CSG must develop an efficient complaints and response system. 4. Priorities are communicated clearly, and work plans and activities are aligned to achieve agreed-upon results. It is highly important that the work plan is shared with all the key stakeholders with clear responsibilities, timelines and clearly defined indicators of Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 175 change. Performance objectives are cascaded down through different levels and are reflected in the context of overall objectives. 5. Risks to achieving results and objectives are identified, assessed and used to inform decision-making, to allow for the development of mitigation plans and actions, and to ensure that policies, procedures and internal controls are relevant and effective. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 176 Final Outcome 2: Clinical Management Practices Reflect Global Recommendations Outcomes (Strategic Objectives) Activities Primarily Responsible Supporting Partner Indicators Federal Level Training programs are in place for the healthcare providers at the Federal level Conduct IMNCI Trainings at the federal level MNHSRC CSG • Number of healthcare providers trained Punjab Level Training programs are in place at different levels for the treatment of pneumonia and diarrhea Include Emphasis on pneumonia and diarrhea in Medical School Training Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Department UNICEF, WHO • Notification Issued Conduct continuous IMNCI training (shorter version of one week) Primary and Secondary Healthcare Secretariat IRMNCH • Number of healthcare providers trained on IMNCI Impart training on induction Primary and Secondary Healthcare Secretariat IRMNCH • Number of healthcare providers trained on induction into service Conduct continuous refresher Trainings Primary and Secondary Healthcare Secretariat IRMNCH • Number of total healthcare providers provided refresher trainings in the last two years Prescribing behavior of the healthcare providers in the private sector is according to the global recommendations Engaging the private sector practitioners through Healthcare commissions Punjab healthcare commission UNICEF NA Engaging private sector practitioners through regulatory and professional bodies like FPAP, PMA, PMDC, PPA CSG UNICEF • Number of private practitioners included in the training for pneumonia and diarrhea Engaging the private sector through the medical representatives of the pharmaceutical firms CSG UNICEF •