of Perspective of Facility In-charges • Keen on training but dissatisfied with the funding, quality and venue for it. Getting TA/DA for trainings was nearly impossible, held government responsible for it. • Ambulance service was in a dismal state • There was certain level of awareness, acceptability and availability of Low Osmolarity ORS • Awareness, acceptability, availability and practical usage of Zinc DTs was not positive • There was an inadequate budget for continuous supply of medicinesshortages were not tracked nor met in a timely manner. • LHWs were ill-equipped in terms of supplies and trainings • LHWs needed to be motivated and incentivized, and made accountable There were mixed opinion on how well equipped LHWs were; some assumed they were provided with adequate supplies while the rest believed otherwise. Nevertheless, majority of facility in-charges unanimously agreed that there was an extreme need to train LHWs on a regular basis to enhance and improve their performance. 4.2.5 Perceptions of General Practitioners General Practitioners (GPs) interviewed in Sindh and Punjab mentioned Diarrhea and Pneumonia as the most common diseases in their catchment areas, along with skin, stomach and chest/respiratory infections and fever. Most common causes of these diseases as mentioned by the GPs were lack of hygiene, poor sanitation, malnutrition, unhealthy nutrition, contaminated water, low breast feeding, environmental pollution and changing weather. A GP from Punjab believed that, “Such diseases can be prevented if clean water and healthy diet is accessible in the community.” Some GPs also mentioned the social factors responsible for these diseases including poverty, illiteracy and lack of awareness. Most commonly mentioned symptoms of Pneumonia were respiratory problems, irregular breastfeeding patterns, high body temperature. On the contrary most popular symptoms for Diarrhea were sunken eyes, dehydration, pale skin, fever and loose motions. GPs who discussed the difference between Diarrhea and dysentery stated that the difference between them were the passage of blood. A GP from Punjab expounded, “In Diarrhea, there are loose watery motions, vomiting and fever whereas, in dysentery blood comes with stools. Dysentery can be caused by both viral and bacterial infection.” Some GPs were of the opinion that allopathic treatment was adopted as the last resort while a few believed that there was sufficient awareness to consult a GP right away. Self-medication was also revealed as a popular mode of treatment. Spiritual healing was also mentioned by a few. Most popular way of treatment of