rural areas. It has also observed that inappropriate prescription and dispensing of medicines also prevails which also led to the gaps is access of essential medicines [5]. World Health Organization described that one of the key component of the functioning of health system is provision of access to affordable, appropriate and high quality medicines. The access of essential medicines is the outcome of integration of finance, planning, service delivery, and information management and governance system [6]. Pakistan’s National Essential Medicines list has been prepared based on the WHO essential medicines list. EDL first version was published in 1995 and subsequently reviewed in 2000, 2003, and 2007 and now latest version has been published in 2016. It consists of 415 total molecules. 23 medicines were added as supplementary medicines which are based on the expert technical group recommendations to provide the wider range of medicines to meet the urgent needs. Selection of essential medicines for the Procurement is based upon the NEML 2016, for conveniences the list of EM has been arranged according to service delivery levels [7]. The access of essential medicines in public health facilities is of the major challenges [8]. The Generic Drug Act was introduced in 1972 to improve the access of essential medicines but it was opposed by the commercial sector [9]. The Drug Act 1976 currently regulates the pharmaceutical sector and is a comprehensive document setting out extensive stipulations for industry licensing, drug registration, quality control etc. However implementation of the act is loosely monitored and creates space for abuse [8]. Due to the weakness of the drug act malpractices of distribution chains has been observed [9] and it is also described in Pakistan Medical and Dental Council 2011 report that due to the absence of the drug act for the promotion of the medicines to the prescriber and its implementation. Receiving of gifts and benefits were not well covered. It has promoted the irrational use of medicines the procurement list of the public sector in Punjab is a Generic list which promotes the healthy competition in commercial sector. The healthcare department of Punjab has been divided into two departments that is Primary and Secondary Healthcare Department (P&SHD) and Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Department. P&SHD is responsible for vertical programs and health facilities including DHQ, THQ, RHC hospitals, BHUs and dispensaries. In principal for the procurement of selected essential medicines for the districts DGHS