be motivated to work professionally and be provided with better working conditions... Actually, they don’t have the required temperament to perform their actual roles. There should be a penalizing and rewarding system for such workers to improve their performance, because these workers are more interested in delivery cases and in pretending to be doctors.” Another facility in-charge from Punjab reiterated a similar view, “They don’t know how to deal with cases of pneumonia and diarrhea. They don’t know about severity of such diseases for children under 5 years of age. If more dosage is given, patient can become critical. They do not Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 88 have the required educational background for management of such diseases.” There were mixed opinion on how well equipped LHWs were; some assumed they were provided with adequate supplies while the rest believed otherwise. Nevertheless, majority of facility in-charges unanimously agreed that there was an extreme need to train LHWs on a regular basis to enhance and improve their performance. Perceptions of General Practitioners General Practitioners (GPs) interviewed in Sindh and Punjab mentioned diarrhea and pneumonia as the most common diseases in their catchment areas, along with skin, stomach and chest/respiratory infections and fever. Summary of Perspective of Facility In-charges • Keen on training but dissatisfied with the funding, quality and venue for it. Getting TA/DA for trainings was nearly impossible, held government responsible for it. • Ambulance service was in a dismal state • There was certain level of awareness, acceptability and availability of Low Osmolarity ORS • Awareness, acceptability, availability and practical usage of Zinc DTs was not positive • There was an inadequate budget for continuous supply of medicinesshortages were not tracked nor met in a timely manner. • LHWs were ill-equipped in terms of supplies and trainings • LHWs needed to be motivated and incentivized, and made accountable Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 89 Most common causes of the diseases as mentioned by the GPs were lack of hygiene, poor sanitation, malnutrition, unhealthy nutrition, contaminated water, low breast feeding, environmental pollution and changing weather. A GP from Punjab believed that, “Such diseases can be prevented if clean water and healthy diet is accessible in the community.” Some GPs also mentioned the social factors responsible for these diseases including poverty, illiteracy and lack of awareness. Majority of the GPs believed that pneumonia’s diagnosis was easily done through stethoscope, x-ray and