households as part of a public health campaign. The project is being carried out in partnership with the Rwanda MoH and the Environmental Management Authority, and is being developed by Manna Energy Limited, a social enterprise that pioneered carbon financed water treatment in Rwanda. The technology distributions will include a household water treatment system that addresses microbiological contamination and a cookstove designed to reduce fuel use and HAP. Neither system requires electricity. The water treatment system will comply with the United States Environmental Protection Agency Guide Standard and Protocol for Testing Microbiological Water Purifiers, providing treated water that is as good as, or better than, boiling for reducing microbiological contamination. Plans are underway to evaluate the new stoves, including their impacts on HAP and fuel use, and in due course, on health outcomes. Source: Adapted from http://www.delaguahealth.com/program/. • Involve the private sector, NGOs and civil society Too often planning for health interventions, such as those involving pneumonia and diarrhoea control, only consider implementation by the public sector. This may be the case even where private practitioners and drug sellers account for a greater share of health care than the public sector. The appropriate involvement of associations of doctors, nurses, pharmacists, drug sellers, traditional healers, manufacturers of water treatment products and sanitation hardware, and community groups in the planning and implementation of pneumonia and diarrhoea actions can achieve greater population coverage. Private sector involvement in nonhealth interventions is required for technology and market development, clean energy supply, finance, etc. • Engage the United Nations agencies and donors The national working/action group should “map” relevant agencies and other possible donors at the country level to see how existing resources can be best used, and, where possible, how additional resources can be mobilized. WHO and UNICEF provide technical support in many countries, through for example, the provision of guidelines and tools for conducting a situation analysis and developing a pneumonia and diarrhoea action plan. They also often provide support for monitoring progress. Agencies involved in CCM activities for malaria are often a good source of support for iCCM. In fact, rapid diagnostic tests used in iCCM are an important tool for ruling out malaria and knowing when pneumonia treatment is necessary. Other recommended actions • Be open to innovations Planners can integrate proven innovations to eliminate barriers to health and produce better outcomes. These approaches may be applied to all activities: leadership and