at home due to long distance. If our child did not get well we will visit to DHQ.” Another parent from Sindh shared similar view, “… We have to get few medicines from city, which is far away from our village. Travelling to the city is time consuming and expensive. BHU should remain open for 24 hours...” However, this was not the case with all parents and government health facilities were easily accessible for some of the parents. A parent from Punjab spoke in favor of accessibility of government hospital in these words; “Government medical services are free of cost and in access of every person. That is why we like to come in government medical facilities. We don’t face any difficulty in reaching this center.” Self-Medication – Hardly a few parents opted for self-treatment yet it is worth mentioning as a source of treatment. A parent from Sindh elaborated on self-medication, “Poor people treat children at home first by giving tablet or syrup and then take them to the doctor if they don’t get well. They also ask Molvi Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 117 Sahab of the village for prayers. They give ORS to their child at home. If my child does not get better, we go to another hospital for treatment.” Private Hospitals – Private hospitals seemed to be viewed as one of the last resorts for treatment, with parents only opting for them after having received unsatisfactory services from the government facilities. The main reason for this was high service charges that private facilities entailed. A respondent from Sindh ruled out private facilities entirely, saying; “Children are taken to the government hospital when they get unwell because they provide free of cost treatment. We cannot afford treatment at private hospital.” Home Remedies – Home remedies were an option for parents due to convenience and cost-effectiveness. Many people preferred home remedies as the first step resort, before seeking help at a hospital. A parent from Punjab stated, “We use home remedies at first because doctor is far away. Treatment is expensive and poverty is widespread…” However, due to increasing literacy and awareness, there seemed to be no households solely relying on home remedies. A parent from Sindh asserted, “Most of the poor people try home remedies at first. Later on they visit the hospital. I came here as the doctor conducts the check up very well.” Many