Community Gatekeepers Pharmaceutical companies Raise positive awareness about the use of essential commodities, and transmit messages that highlight the benefit. This will lead to effective demand creation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities. Additionally, advocacy with gate-keepers of the community will create a circle of influence that will further boost the demand for such commodities. Collaborate with local pharmaceuticals to produce and manufacture recommended Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities and to ensure availability and widespread access through effective marketing to rural and other communities using their own network. Media campaign, Advocacy by local health providers Pharmaceutical companies: Face to face meetings Seminars 113 LESSONS LEARNED & CONCLUSIONS DRAWN 114 This chapter encapsulates all the major takeaways from the findings of this research for improving the treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and to inform the policy decision making. The chapter is organized as policy environment, clinical management practices and pharmaceutical feasibility sections. 8.1 POLICY ENVIRONMENT Studying the policy environment in treating fatal diseases like Pneumonia and Diarrhea led to many revelations. In the post devolution scenario, the provincial health sector strategies have a main guiding role for the areas related to service delivery. Most of the provincial health sector strategies are on the verge of completing the terms for which they were drafted and will be reviewed in the next year. This provides an opportunity to incorporate the necessary changes required to enhance the focus on morbidity and mortality in children due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Data is not analyzed at the district level and the same time, validity and reliability of data gathered from districts, received at the highest point is questionable. Provincial Health Sector Strategy of Punjab lacks an emphatic focus on child survival whereas Government of Sindh has drafted first Child Health Strategy which focuses on necessary interventions at the strategic level. No child survival groups were found to be in existence at the Federal level. Sindh has evidence based medicine cost estimation while Punjab does not have any such procedure. Sindh has already included the Amoxicillin and Zinc in the EML with the word “preferred.” On the contrary EML at the Federal level and in the province of Punjab contain Amoxicillin and Zinc in the “Solid Oral Dosage Form.” Sindh and Punjab have already incorporated the dispersible tablets (DTs) in the provincial essential medicine lists and the process of updating the IMNCI guidelines has also been initiated. USAID USP-PQM