no denying the usefulness of ARI timers and pulse oximeters in timely diagnosing ARI/Pneumonia and Diarrhea and referral where required. Health care providers were aware that pulse oximeters could not be used without oxygen. Facility in-charges in Punjab complained of lack of requisite equipment and the need for proper maintenance. Majority of the LHWs claimed to have ARI timers, only a few from Sindh reported that it was out of order and hadn’t been replaced. Front line workers in resource limited setting acknowledge the role of ARI Timers, “…After the introduction of ARI Timers, my ability to diagnose and address pneumonia has improved.” Regarding the maintenance and safety of pulse oximeter, a paediatrician from Punjab expounded, “Pulse oximeter usage and maintenance is a little problematic as it is not sustainable. It’s reading are misleading if not clipped properly wrong readings. Fixed pulse oximeters break. While portable ones get misplaced and lost.” Majority of government officials responded in affirmative when asked whether treatment protocols including EML, IMNCI, MSDP and Procurement lists for Pneumonia and Diarrhea have been updated. UNICEF’s and WHO’s support in this context was highlighted time and again. A respondent expressed his gratitude while saying, “Donors are supporting us with Diarrhea Kits, ARI Kits… all commodities are also made available by WHO.” Various respondents, also highlighted the development of DHIS2 and how it would facilitate the management of Pneumonia and diarrhea. A respondent stated with regard to DHIS2, EQ: Are the strategies or approaches appropriate and adequate to achieve results? Midterm Evaluation Report 49 “This project will impact 27 million beneficiaries (Women & Children) from being affected with Pneumonia and Diarrhea morbidity & mortality.” 4.2.2 Effectiveness Effectiveness has been assessed to determine the extent to which the project was able to attain its objectives. Finding: The project was able to update national and provincial policies and guidelines in line with GAPPD recommendations. The project is implemented with a GAPPD approach. Project contributes to increase child survival in Pakistan, particularly by strengthening policy solutions for better management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Over a period of two years the project has been able to update national and provincial policies and guidelines in line with GAPPD recommendations. Revision of IMNCI Guidelines – UNICEF, has successfully provided technical assistance to draft and endorse the revised community IMNCI training manuals on child survival from the Technical Working Groups and Government. Policymakers and professionals have