30. Do you find the cost of treatment affordable? a. Yes b. No 149 1. What has happened to your child and since how long has he/she been ill? Probe: i. What are the present complaints? ii. In your opinion, how the child has developed this disease? Explain. 2. Why did you select this facility for treatment for the child? Did you face any challenge or delay in accessing the treatment? If yes why? Please elaborate reasons. Probe: i. Was the delay due to delayed decision making at home; or time spent during the journey or waiting time at the facility or combination of any of these factors? 11. ANNEX 150 3. What are the Common childhood problems in your community? Have you heard of any disease in recent times that affected large number of children and caused many deaths, especially in children less than 5 years of age? Please explain. Probe: i. What is your perception about reasons behind spread of Pneumonia or diarrhoeal diseases? ii. In your opinion, could deaths associated with these be prevented? If yeshow? Name of Medical Store Name of Facility In-charge Address Contact Number Interviewer 1 Interviewer 2 151 4. Where do most people prefer to go to seek treatment of children? What degree of influence do you think the cultural and family norms and beliefs have over the choice of treatment? Probe: i. Which treatment choice is commonly preferred? ( home remedies, traditional medicines, spiritual treatment or qualified professional care) ii. What are the reasons for your stated preference? iii. Where will you go if your child doesn’t get well? 5. In your opinion, which preventive measures and/or habits can prevent spread of Pneumonia or diarrhoeal diseases to contacts? Please describe. Probe: i. From which source have you received this information? 6. Now I would like to enquire about follow-up plan (routine/emergency) as discussed by care provider. Please elaborate Probe i. When will you revisit the facility for routine follow-up? ii. What signs and symptoms should prompt you to revisit the facility immediately? 11. ANNEX 152 7. What do you say about the overall quality of services? Would you like to visit this facility again for child care? Probe: i. Do you have any suggestion to improve the services? 4. INTERVIEW WITH PHARMACY INCHARGE CONSENT STATEMENT Read to Respondent: Assalam-o-Alaikum. I am _____________________ representing a health research organization ‘Contech International’. We are conducting