with oral medications? iv. Is there any role of oral Zinc in its treatment? If so, what type of Zinc formulation is usually provided at your clinic? v. Have you ever heard of any dispersible (soluble in water) tablets of Zinc? If so, do you perceive any advantage of dispersible tablets over syrups? vi. In your opinion, how would community take the idea of using dispersible tablets? vii. Do you think there is any advantage of using Low Osmolarity ORS compared to regular ORS in treating Diarrhea? What do you routinely prescribe? viii. In case of complications, what referral mechanisms exist for transferring these children to higher-level health facilities? 6. Now, I would like you to comment on the cost of treating Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Probes: i. In your opinion, does cost play a significant influence over the choice of medicines prescribed and service provider? ii. How commonly do you prescribe a medicine to be bought from market in case of its stock-out? iii. What do you do in case of a non-affording patient? Do you prescribe inexpensive medicines? 7. What must be done to improve the quality of pneumonia and diarrhea services at community level? Midterm Evaluation Report 118 GUIDE FOR FOCUS GROUP DISCUSSION (FGDs) WITH BENEFICIARIES (MOTHERS OF CHILDREN UNDER 5 YEARS) Name of District Number of Participants Date During the initial discussion to explain the evaluation, the interviewer and participant should have had the opportunity to introduce themselves and to make small talk to break the ice. You can begin by saying these words to the group of participants: ‘As you know Pneumonia and Diarrhea are common causes of deaths among children under age 5. We are conducting a study to learn about of health-seeking behaviors regarding these diseases among children and would like to know your views in this regards. We will start when you are ready, will listen to your view points and ask few questions to clarify some of the things you would talk about.’ May we begin? The guideline contains multiple questions and each question is followed by a set of probes. Please let participants initiate the discussion and use probes only when certain concerns are not addressed by the group. 1. What causes diarrhoea and pneumonia and what are the symptoms? o In your opinion, which preventive measures and/or habits can prevent spread of pneumonia or diarrhoeal diseases? o From which source