any? iii. In your opinion, which marketing strategy is more likely to promote demand and sale of these drugs? 6. Do you receive prescriptions from the public sector health facilities as well (e.g. BHUs, RHC, THQ, DHQ, and MCH)? If so, about what percentage do you get such prescriptions? If not, why not? Probe: i. Is the client/patient specifically referred to your pharmacy from public sector facility or is the client given free choice to select any? Tool for Prescription Review PRESCRIPTION Drug Formulation* Dose Frequency Duration Amoxicillin Zinc Sulfate ORS (LO or regular) * Formulations include Syrup, Dispersible Tablet, Sachet or Tablet. FACILITY IDENTIFICATION Name of the district Name of the facility Address Facility Code (HID No) PATIENT IDENTIFICATION Age of Child Gender Provisional Diagnosis Midterm Evaluation Report 121 Annex 6: Risk Register 1 EXTERNAL RISKS Project risks Assessment of impact of risks Assessment of probability of risks Possible mitigation Residual risks that cannot be managed 1.1 Political/Terrorism Situation 1.1.1 Protests High Medium Contingency operational planning of field operations Country-wide impact 1.1.2 Military operation High Medium Security measures to be adopted and local personnel/organizations to be involved Security threat in high risk areas/no-go areas 1.1.3 Unstable political situation High Medium Support from local political parties and government Change of government 1.2 Health Priorities and staff transitions 1.2.1 Field activities and operations High Medium Days to be identified beforehand and planning done accordingly Set plan for operations Emergency outbreaks/epidemic/accidents causing disruption in operationalization 1.2.2 Posting/Transfer of any potential key officer (in Government/ programme) Medium Medium Rapport building sessions with Programme /Government officials Key stakeholders officials transferred and vacant positions 1.3 Security Situation 1.3.1 Law & order situation High High Only local field and operational teams to be involved/hired Security threats in high risk areas/no-go areas 1.3.2 Movement in hard to reach areas High High Security measures to be adopted and local personnel to be involved Security planning to be done beforehand 1.4 Natural Disasters or Disease Outbreaks Midterm Evaluation Report 122 1.4.1 Extreme weather conditions Medium Medium Variation in functioning hours in winters and summer according to the terrain/location Natural calamities 1.4.2 Natural Calamities and Disasters Medium Low Forecasting, precautionary measures for disaster management Crisis and disasters 1.5 Capacity issues 1.5.1 Inexperienced and unqualified field teams Medium Low Recruitment on the basis of previous experience within similar and local context and refresher trainings periodically Local staff with requisite skills and