to Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 190 the hospitals, availability of doctors and lesser waiting time, better infrastructures and support facilities at the hospitals etc. They mentioned that they were not adequately equipped with the required medical supplies, tools or guidelines. They were also concerned about their safety and security while going out in the field. Conclusion & recommendations: There is a need for consistent training regimen and an IT based case documentation system at community level. Free sampling can be an effective tool for penetrating the market, especially for new forms of medicines like DT. Field and community level testing prior to scale up is required to enhance acceptability of DT. Dispersible Tablets needs to be named and branded differently to deal with the preconceived notion of Tablets as hard to swallow substance. Pharmaceutical Feasibility Role of the pharmaceutical manufacturers was deemed to be crucial in changing the prescribing behaviour of the private sector. Hence a feasibility analysis was conducted to explore the opportunities for local production of desired commodities in Pakistan and to assess the market potential of pharmaceutical industry in meeting the need of updated pneumonia and diarrhea commodities. It was found that, presently the local industry is meeting 70% demand of all the finished products and the sector is expanding in the international market. The quality of locally manufactured drugs is regulated by the Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP), which on average takes 15-18 months to process Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 191 registration of a new product. This process however can be expedited if the public interest demands so. Although DRAP’s rules currently do not allow marketing of co-packaged Zinc and ORS but has no restriction on co-packaging of the same after purchase. While one local company was found to be licensed to manufacture Amoxicillin DT, over 15 large to medium sized local pharmaceutical companies were identified which were known to produce Zinc DT and Low Osmolarity ORS. Five key companies; ZAFA, ATCO, FEROZSONS, AMSON and Well n Well have expressed willingness to enhance production after agreeing on promotion strategy jointly prepared with UNICEF. Factors that may influence supply include capability and capacity to use technology, profitability, presence of substitute, site of manufacturing plant and sustenance of demand. Factors which may influence demand include; affordability, availability/accessibility, operational and marketing strategies. Furthermore, they also demonstrated a readiness to cooperate with UN agencies in launching advocacy