to 3.5 percent of total OPD). While a key local pharmaceutical company manufactures the suspension, the sachets are prepared inside the hospital under supervision of the Department of Pharmacy. Similarly, while on average 80 sachets of Low osmolarity ORS of key local brand are issued daily in the OPD, ready to use self-prepared supply of low osmolarity ORS through 19 liter bottles is maintained 24/7 for the Emergency Department. 5.3.1.2 Situation at Pharmacies At all surveyed pharmacies, 125 mg strength of amoxicillin syrup was found across the board, while most pharmacies also contained syrup 250 mg as well. The situation was similar in Punjab and Sindh. Zinc Syrup was available in all the assessed pharmacies of Sindh, while in Punjab, it was available at over two third of pharmacies. Low Osmolarity ORS was available in nearly all the pharmacies visited in Sindh but only in one third of those visited in Punjab. Ringers lactate Solution was available at most of the drugstores and over half of this also stocked 0.45% Normal Saline/Dextrose Saline. Dispersible formulations of Zinc and Amoxicillin and co-packaged ORS with Zinc were not found at any of the pharmacies visited in Sindh and Punjab. Dispersible formulations of Zinc and Amoxicillin, or any co-packed formulation, were not available at any of the pharmacies visited during the survey. 72 5.3.2 Market Analysis According to the current computerized data of DRAP, only one local company has so far registered itself for the production of Amoxicillin DT and fifteen companies have been registered or are in the process, for production of Zinc DT. Countrywide location of these manufacturers is as follows. Figure 7: Location of Manufacturers of Zinc DT and Low Osm ORS Zinc Sulphate-DT Low Osmolarity ORS Nearly 12 Pharmaceuticals reportedly possess the license to manufacture Low Osmolarity ORS. In order to capture the market, data of fifteen such companies was gathered. 5.3.3 Profiles of Potential Pharmaceuticals Fifteen large to medium sized key local pharmaceutical companies were approached, out of which five manufacturers expressed willingness to join hands with UNICEF in enhancing production of Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities in line with WHO recommendations. The manufacturing potential of these pharmaceutical companies for Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT and Low Osmolarity ORS is depicted in the following table. Table 3: Pharmaceutical manufacturers producing updated commodities *Expected to complete before June 2018 Pharmaceuticals Amoxicillin DT Zinc DT Low Osm ORS M/S ZAFA M/S FEROZSONS