the beginning of each interview session. Those who could not sign consent forms demonstrated their approval with a fingerprint, in the presence of the interviewer. The content of the consent form was read out to the respondents and their apprehensions were clarified. It was also specified that their participation was voluntary and they could refuse to answer any particular questions or even withdraw entirely from the session at any time, without any notice or obligation. Each session was audio recorded where permitted by the respondents, otherwise fieldnotes were taken by the interviewer. Data was collected in a manner that was comfortable for each participant, in which he/she was able to speak openly and honestly. As promised, their anonymity was maintained throughout the study, and personal identifiers were removed from the data. None of the researchers had any conflict Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 47 of interest. Keeping privacy and confidentiality of the respondents in consideration, all hard and soft copies of the collected data was kept securely and only authorized personnel of Contech had access to this database and its backup. Addressing Gender and Child Rights Issues Gender is one of the organizing principles of Pakistani society. Local traditions and culture embody values pre-determining gender values in society. There is considerable diversity in the status of women as well as rights of the children across classes, regions, and rural/urban divide due to uneven socioeconomic development and the impact of tribal, feudal, and social formations on women and children's lives. Traditional norms surrounding the behaviour of women, including gender inequality, limited socioeconomic standing, low literacy rates, early marriage during adolescence, and high fertility, limit women’s ability to act in their own interest and compromise access to reproductive healthcare and family planning services. Children and youth (0-24 years of age) who make up over 60% of the population, still remain underserved by the health system. The rights of these children and youth are sensitive to social and cultural considerations including gender, language and religion. This particular research entailed addressing gender, child rights and social exclusion barriers, hence the aforementioned notion was kept in consideration during varied phases including research/activity designing, consultations & stakeholder engagement, staff hiring and training, and M&E. During training of field teams, gender and child rights orientation was given as part of the study design. Study approaches and activities were reviewed for sensitivity in understanding the involved gender roles,