5 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) Executive Summary Ending two major preventable causes of child death Stopping the loss of millions of young lives from pneumonia and diarrhoea is a goal within our grasp. The integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) proposes a cohesive approach to ending preventable pneumonia and diarrhoea deaths. It brings together critical services and interventions to create healthy environments, promotes practices known to protect children from disease and ensures that every child has access to proven and appropriate preventive and treatment measures. The goal is ambitious but achievable: to end preventable childhood deaths due to pneumonia and diarrhoea by 2025. The momentum needed to achieve this goal exists already. The world has achieved substantial gains in child survival over the past 20 years and extensive work has been done to not only meet the Millennium Development Goal for 2015 on child survival, but also go beyond. The United Nations Global Strategy for Women’s and Children’s Health, launched in 2010, calls for a “continuum of care” approach to services, aiming to save 16 million lives. With the Every Woman Every Child (EWEC) movement, efforts have continued. In 2012, the call to action Committing to Child Survival: A Promise Renewed challenged the global community to reduce child mortality to 20 or fewer child deaths per 1000 live births in every country by 2035. Other contributing initiatives include the Global Vaccine Action Plan, which sets out a strategy for preventing childhood disease through vaccination; the comprehensive implementation plan to improve maternal, infant and young child nutrition endorsed by WHO Member States; and the United Nations Sustainable Energy For All initiative which is a public-private commitment to universal access to modern energy services by 2030. Moreover, the United Nations Commission on Life-Saving Commodities made important recommendations to strengthen access to and use of lifesaving commodities including treatment for pneumonia and diarrhoea, while the United Nations Commission on Information and Accountability paved the way for improved monitoring of programmes to protect women’s and children’s health. Closing the gap: reaching all children with existing interventions Pneumonia and diarrhoea remain major killers of young children. Together, these diseases account for 29% of all deaths of children less than 5 years of age and result in the loss of 2 million young lives each year. Pneumonia