TOC, the Project is expected to achieve the following outcomes, pertaining to policy change, translation and implementation of this project: • Outcome 1: Policy Change Existing national/provincial policies and guidelines are updated in line with global recommendations (GAPPD/WHO) for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan by the end of 2020. • Outcome 2: Policy Translation Translation of revised and updated Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment guidelines into gender-responsive relevant action plans by all provincial/areas health departments in Pakistan by the end of 2020. • Outcome 3: Policy Implementation Availability of essential commodities (amoxicillin DT, zinc DT, co-packaged ORS and zinc, oxygen, ARI timers, and pulse oximeters) for treatment of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Pakistan by the end of 2020. • Outcome 4: Knowledge Management Translation of lessons learnt from this investment to other settings/broader geographical areas within Pakistan. Midterm Evaluation Report 14 Figure 1: Project Theory of Change This project promotes gender equality and women empowerment at community level. The community outreach workers (LHS and LHWs) are females who work at the grass root level, to promote healthy behaviours and provide basic curative services for both female and male children, without any discrimination. Since the project involves provision of commodities including gadgets like ARI timers to LHWs, the project is equipping the females in the community and empowering them to perform better. The project also aims to improve Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment equally for both female and male child, without any discrimination. Now after the implementation of the project, to ascertain the direction and progress made in this project in achieving the ultimate goal, UNICEF is getting a ‘Midterm Evaluation’ conducted as a part of the planned monitoring and evaluation activities for this Midterm Evaluation Report 15 project. The table below demonstrates the involvement of stakeholders in this project at various tiers. These stakeholders were involved at all stages of the MTE. P&D Project Stakeholders Roles and Responsibilities LEVEL STAKEHOLDERS ROLES Federal M/o National Health Services Regulations and Coordination, UNICEF Knowledge Management, Steering, Monitoring, Policy Changing And Policy Translation Roles Provincial DOHs, LHW Programme, IRMNCH Programme, UNICEF Project Staff Management And Implementation Roles District District Health Offices, Healthcare Providers, Lady Health Supervisors (LHSs) and Lady Health Workers (LHWs) Coordination And Implementation Roles Community Concerned Population i.e. service users (mothers/caregivers of U5 children) Recipients And Beneficiaries Development Partners BMGF Funding Support UN Agencies Technical Reviews And