from these trainings. GPs didn’t undermine their credibility as medical specialists but wanted their knowledge to be updated through trainings. Being from the private sector, most GPs felt being left out. Thus they wanted to be involved in the training provided by donors or/and the EQ: Whether the healthcare provider and community health workers have the required knowledge and skills to proper utilization of supplies as per standards and use of reporting tools? Midterm Evaluation Report 53 government. LHWs as mentioned in the other sections couldn’t emphasize enough the need for their trainings and refreshers. This was also endorsed by district officers as one explained, “They are not specialists therefore, they required to improve their health services at all the time through trainings, sessions, meetings and refreshers.” Not just general trainings, but training in the context of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and for the usage of new commodities were demanded, especially for DTs and ARI timers. A provincial respondent highlighted this need saying, “DTs are new form of medication. Until and unless, LHWs are sure about its usage and convinced about their benefits, how will they be able to convey their knowledge to the mothers?” Finding: Reporting tools on facility (DHIS tools) and community level data (LHW MIS tools) were updated with inclusion of indicators on P&D along with new commodities in line with GAPPD recommendations and WHO guidelines. Management Information System plays a vital role in combating mortality and morbidity due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea. KIIs with DHIS focal persons of Sindh and Punjab were conducted to get an insight on the current status of DHIS. It was informed that in both provinces reporting tools on facility and community have been updated to reflect the new commodities in alignment with GAPPD recommendations and WHO guidelines. Provincial managers from both Sindh and Punjab, informed that the updated DHIS, includes indicators about availability of Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT and L-ORS in the stock available at facility and community. Furthermore, Provincial manager from Sindh commented, “Stock outs of DTs and L-ORS are reflected in the reporting tools in the DHIS.” It was informed that by the Provincial Managers in both Punjab and Sindh that UNICEF, has provided technical support to develop Pneumonia and Diarrhea specific modules and trainings. According to them, trickle down trainings were conducted for reporting tools on community level data “Provincial Master trainers conduct/arrange the trainings at district level and