specific needs of the system. Thus, quality improvement means taking a snap shot of the whole system, paying close attention to individual service users and the community at large, and emphasizing on delivering effective, efficient, accessible, acceptable, equitable and safe healthcare service to all (WHO, 2006). As it can be gleaned from the aforementioned discussion, there are myriad definitions associated with quality healthcare services. The important question to ask at this point however is why quality is so important. The answer to this question can be sought by looking at the relevance of the issue in hand. Since late 90s’, there had been emphasis on child health, either through global goals (MDGs and SDGs), IMNCI and iCCM programs or Pneumonia and Diarrhea programs (Taylor, Schumacher & Davis, 2016). Following figure demonstrates the miles stones and main initiatives that were taken globally in child health development between 1980 and 2015. 10 Figure 4: Key Events and Turning Points in Child Health Source: Reproduced from, Mapping Global Leadership A significant focus of Millennium Development Goals was on improving child health development between 1980 and 2015. In late 1990s integrated approach to child health known as Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) was launched. It includes preventive and curative elements that are implemented by families and communities as well as by health facilities (WHO, 2017). A consequence to the challenges of IMNCI was the development of Integrated Community Case Management (iCCM). It targets a subset of most important IMNCI interventions; case management of Pneumonia, Diarrhea and malaria and was put together in a simpler package more suitable to community health systems (Taylor, Schumacher & Davis, 2016). During 1980s, ORS was introduced for treating Diarrhea, which lead to significant decline in child mortality. However, starting from mid-1990s to the first decade of the 2000s, progress came to halt. Demand for ORS in communities did not increase because it did not prove to be a quick cure. On the other hand, the growth of other priorities such as malaria, HIV/AIDs, and immunization shifted the focus; Diarrhea case management moved under IMNCI and executed at a smaller scale (Santosham et al, 2010). With passage of time more optimal ORS formulations were developed, and in 2004 WHO and UNICEF recommended addition of Zinc to prevention and treatment guidelines. Global Zinc Task Force, established in 2005, set out to accelerate the adoption of Zinc in high concentration countries.