totally unaware. Those who were completely unaware used their experience in treating patients. Most of the GPs were of the opinion that a need existed for training for the correct and appropriate use of protocols. The practicality of the Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 93 use of protocols was also questionable. A GP from Punjab explained, “Such guidelines are only 50% beneficial…it does not 100% explain things as they actually occur between doctors and patients in real life.” Hence, designing protocols effectively and customizing them to the local needs would be quite beneficial. For some GPs, asking them about the need for trainings was as if their credentials were being questioned. Except for one, all GPs from Punjab emphasized their competency in dealing with childhood diseases before acknowledging the need for conducting such trainings. One stated, “I feel, I have skills/competency to diagnose and treat patients with such diseases. I have received no such training in my whole life.” Training was also perceived as a form of acknowledgement of their contribution to the society. A GP in Sindh revealed another reason for conducting such trainings was to provide moral support and recognize their service to the community. He articulated, “GPs should have trainings because we play important role in the society.” Government Role in Trainings Resentment towards the government was prevalent among the responses. Most GPs held government responsible for such trainings not being conducted. A GP from Punjab stated that, “It’s not priority of the government.” There was also a common perception among the GPs that pharmaceutical companies and health department carried out such trainings. It also seemed that GPs working in private clinics particularly felt left out as they associated the lack provision of guidelines to the private setup. Similarly for the under-provision of these guidelines, protocols, and their trainings, almost all GPs held government responsible. One respondent vented, “…such specific protocols and guidelines are not available because our health system is not fully Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 94 developed. Pharmaceutical companies are not responsible...government should arrange and provide such material.” Perceptions of Pharmacy In-Charges According to pharmacy in-charges the most commonly prescribed antibiotics for the treatment of respiratory tract infections were Amoxil (Amoxicillin), Oxidil (Ceftriaxone), Novidat (Ciprofloxacin) along with Zinc Sulphate in syrup form. The pharmacy in-charges interviewed were aware of the use of Zinc in the treatment of Diarrhea. Other popular treatment for diarrhea included