asking direct questions as much as possible; rather, prompts should be in the form of ‘give us an example of …’, ‘what do you think of …’, ‘tell us more about … Availability of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services Human resource for management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea Facility Resources for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Community-based resources for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Recording and reporting of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services (DHIS) Monitoring, supervision & evaluation of health facilities and community based workers Community liaison and awareness Facility and community level utilization Suggestions for improvement 7. Interview Guides of District Managers District LHW Coordinator Before starting interview, remember to :  Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit  Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of study objectives  Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 1. First I’d like to ask you about the role of LHWs in reducing morbidity and mortality associated with Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children.  What are the policies and guidelines for LHW Program to deliver child health services?  In your opinion, how adequate are these policies/guidelines to ensure the availability of services, particularly for the management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 2. To what extent are you satisfy with the program performance during the transition period after 18th amendment  In your opinion continuation of current implementation structure and policies feasible to achieve the desire targets or goals of childhood communicable diseases including pneumonia and diarrhea  Will you suggest partial modifications or radical revamping of program governance and implementation 3. To what extent the program is sustainable after regularization of LHWs and provincilization of the program  Probe about financial sustainability of the program in relation to further expansion and improvement of existing quality of services 4. What is the status/coverage of LHWs in your district?  Is required number of LHWs present to cover your entire district? If not, what are the reasons for unavailability of LHWs?  In your opinion, how availability of LHWs can be improved in your district? 5. What do you think about the competence of LHWs to manage diarrhea and pneumonia in children at household level and for referral of complicated cases?  What is routine mechanism for in-service training and capacity building of LHWs in your district?  Is there any specific training for prevention and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea, like IMNCI