It is recommended that for budget 2018-19, for which the budget preparation activities, in the provinces will start from November / December this year, pre-budget consultative workshops should be held with relevant provincial and district officials, local level politicians, and donors. The aim of these workshops will be to apprise various stakeholders of the demographic, disease burden and current levels of health services in the districts and local communities. 9. Promotion of the use of co-packing (ORS and Zinc tablets) for treatment of diarrhoea and Amoxicillin suspension tablets for treatment of pneumonia in the private sector Private sector role in treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia is significant and therefore, the government should, based on WHO’s recommendation, promote use of co-packing (ORS and Zinc DT), and Amoxicillin suspension tablets with general physicians. Details on the recommendations are provided in Chapter 3.8. 4 Source; National Health Survey 2005-06 4 2. Study Objectives and Methodology 2.1. Study Objectives This study assesses financial resources required vs available at the provincial and area levels for the treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea by the public sector in Pakistan. More specifically, this study: • Estimates the current level of funding commitment at provincial/regional (i.e. subprovincial) levels by Government towards purchase of commodities for treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea by using the information provided by the Government. • Provides a forecasting mechanism to ascertain funding requirements to purchase essential commodities for treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea at the primary and secondary level. • Uses certain methods to assess the direct costs incurred by the Government (i.e. cost of procurement and cost of transportation) and indirect costs (i.e. manpower cost, overheads, etc.) incurred by the Government. • Provides a method of calculating the total amount of budget demanded vs allocated and spent on essential commodities for the treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea. • Discusses the ways to reduce out of pocket expenditure in Pakistan through the review of health treatment offered by the private health facilities vs. the public sector. • Determines the diversity and depth of the budget performance and implementation challenges. • Provide recommendations for adequate resource allocation and methods to improve forecasting at the provincial and sub-provincial levels. 2.2. Scope of the Study The study was carried out for Balochistan, FATA, Federal Government, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab and Sindh. This study does not include analysis for Azad Jammu and Kashmir, and Gilgit Baltistan. In the above geographical