on the current indicator deﬁnition with previously used indicators may result in markedly diﬀerent values. There may 40 Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done their response categories. Here again, it is important to note that survey questionnaires are translated into diﬀerent languages, which may also result in slight diﬀerences in the wording of questions across countries and over time – aﬀecting data collected not only for the diarrhoea treatment indictors, but for other information as well. Further research is needed to determine the extent to which these slight wording changes may have aﬀected overall coverage values. The change in response categories for the continued feeding indicator around 2000 has particularly aﬀected the availability of data to report on this indicator as well as the ORT with continued feeding indicator. For example, prior to 2000, caregivers were asked if the child received more, the same or less to eat during the diarrhoea episode. After that time, the response categories were revised to include ‘somewhat less’ and ‘much less’ in addition to the other categories. Children are considered to have received the continued feeding intervention if they received the same, more or somewhat less to eat during their illness. This leads to a lack of available data to measure this indicator deﬁnition prior to 2000, given that the caregiver responses did not include a ‘somewhat less’ category. also be a diﬀerent assessment of trends over time depending on the indicator used. It is therefore important for countries to adopt and promote the latest recommendations for treating diarrhoeal diseases, and to monitor these programmes using the appropriate indicators. Third, prevalence estimates derived from nationallevel household surveys may vary markedly by season and by timing of outbreaks (such as cholera). Prevalence estimates are also aﬀected by the survey respondents’ understanding of what constitutes a diarrhoea episode. The survey does not measure the type of diarrhoea experienced by the child (including its length and severity), nor the extent of dehydration resulting from the diarrhoea episode. These prevalence estimates are used to derive the denominator for diarrhoea treatment coverage values. Fourth, information is not collected on the number and timing of interventions used during the diarrhoea episode, including whether children received early ORS administration, the number of ORS packets received during the course of the illness, or whether homemade ﬂuids were correctly prepared. In addition, diﬀerent countries have diﬀerent guidelines on