definitely benefit the facility and its workers, which would in turn prove beneficial for the entire community. Facility in-charges believed that there was not only a need for training staff in treating these diseases but also for inventory management including forecasting and quantification of the medicines. A facility incharge from Sindh expressed his frustration, “My staff and I have not received any call for any training in the last two years. I have no idea about the reason behind not arranging for any such training …” Another one gave a more detailed response, “It is unfortunate that the health facility staff, especially the paramedics, did not receive any training for treating diarrhea and pneumonia in the last many years. Yes! I have received such trainings. The staff at this BHU, like LHWs, have also received such trainings but paramedics did not receive any training for diarrhea and pneumonia.” At the same time, most facility in-charges claimed their health facilities were fully equipped to deal with all childhood diseases, reporting competent and skilled staff. An incharge of a facility in Sindh reflected, “This health facility is well known & upgraded as RHC. The staff, especially the paramedics is competent in their work. Their skills to manage Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 77 the childhood diseases are up to mark. Such in-service trainings can enhance the competence level in terms of diagnosis of diseases, its categorization and treatment.” Nonetheless, a few reported that such trainings did take place. A facility in-charge from Punjab added, “On 5th September 2017, LHWs associated with our facility got training on prevention of diarrhea and hepatitis B. On 15th of September, we the doctors are going to get training on hepatitis B, but not on Diarrhea.” Quality of Trainings Many respondents complained about trainings being unsatisfactory, mismanaged and often conducted by unqualified trainers. Substandard quality of trainings was also associated with lack of funding. A facility in-charge from Punjab shared his account, “There are many shortcomings in such trainings. The trainer should be a specialist in the field and on the subject on whom the training has to take place. Normally DM or EDO gives such trainings. For training on pneumonia, child specialists should be invited as trainer.” Venue & Transportation Costs Venue of the trainings and transportation to the venue was a cause of concern for most medical staff. They faced difficulty in receiving reimbursement for