well. The situation was similar in Punjab and Sindh. Zinc Syrup was available in all the assessed pharmacies of Sindh, while in Punjab, it was available at over two third of pharmacies. Low Osmolarity ORS was available in nearly all the pharmacies visited in Sindh but only in one third of those visited in Punjab. Ringers lactate Solution was available at most of the drugstores and over half of this also stocked 0.45% Normal Saline/Dextrose Saline. Dispersible formulations of zinc and Amoxicillin and co-packaged ORS with Zinc were not found at any of the pharmacies visited in Sindh and Punjab. Dispersible formulations of Zinc and Amoxicillin, or any co-packed formulation, were not available at any of the pharmacies visited during the survey. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 138 Market Analysis According to the current computerized data of DRAP, only one local company has so far registered itself for the production of Amoxicillin DT and fifteen companies have been registered or are in the process, for production of Zinc DT. Countrywide location of these manufacturers is as follows. Figure 7: Location of Manufacturers of Zinc DT and Low Osm ORS Up to two dozen Pharmaceuticals reportedly possess the license to manufacture Low Osmolarity ORS. In order to capture the market, data of fifteen such companies was gathered. Profiles of Potential Pharmaceuticals Fifteen large to medium sized key local pharmaceutical companies were approached, out of which five manufacturers expressed willingness to join hands with UNICEF in Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 139 enhancing production of pneumonia and diarrhea commodities in line with WHO recommendations. The manufacturing potential of these pharmaceutical companies for Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT and Low Osmolarity ORS is depicted in the following table. Table 3: Under-five mortality rates in each province of Pakistan Pharmaceuticals Amoxicillin DT Zinc DT Low Osm ORS M/S ZAFA ✓ ✓ X M/S FEROZSONS X Reg. in Process* ✓ M/S ATCO X Reg. in Process* ✓ M/S AMSON X ✓ X M/S WELL n WELL X ✓ ✓ *Expected to complete before June 2018 It is pertinent to mention that four of the above companies are also manufacturing Zinc Syrup. These were established at different times, from 61 years to 10 years ago, and are located at three different regions of the country (location given in the map below); two in South (Karachi), one in central Punjab (Lahore) and two in North (Islamabad Capital Territory).