and illiteracy in the community, especially among mothers, which interferes with their ability to understand the root cause of these diseases, their preventive as EQ: What have been the major factors influencing the achievement or non-achievement of outcomes? Midterm Evaluation Report 56 well as their treatment measures. There is a dire need for basic consciousness for incorporating hygiene in the daily routines. To promote the concept of hygiene and cleanliness, a participant suggested, “Every Friday sermon should necessarily include emphasis on cleanliness; Safayi nisf imaan hai.” Another suggestion was that public awareness on hygiene should be created by media campaigns, referring to pictorials distributed by UNICEF for this project. Shortage and high turnover of medical staff along with high burden of patients were mentioned quite recurrently at facility level. A respondent at RHC in Punjab described his workload of patients, “We get 500 patients in OPD in a single day, hence we can’t give more than 40-50 seconds to each patient.” LHWs complained that they were over burdened with other campaigns like dengue and polio whereas their original job description is only MNCH related work. Other stakeholders also agreed that such engagements hindered LHWs from focusing on their primary duties. Finding: Project has made certain adjustments mid-way to increase effective implementation. A significant assignment undertaken for course correction is this midterm evaluation of the project. Many changes were made along the way. Supplies are now directly delivered to LHWs without involving the district managers. LHWs were satisfied with this mechanism as it ensured uninterrupted and timely supply. The DHIS2; linking of LMIS and DHIS would further facilitate in strengthening this project. Co-packaging of Zinc DT and Lo ORS, which was initially introduced, has now been discontinued due to its impracticality. However, many facility in-charges in Punjab claimed to still have and distribute these co-packaged commodities. 4.2.3 Efficiency Finding: The project has been able to achieve its planned milestones, activities and outcomes within stipulated timeline ensuring efficient use of resources. In the annual progress report of Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project, UNICEF has outlined four outcomes that have to be achieved by the end of this project. First outcome, being aimed is the “Policy Change”. It has been achieved by updating existing national/provincial policies and guidelines in line with global recommendations WHO and GAPPD for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan. There was an agreement among the