strategic and operational plans of the Federal and Provincial governments. Child Survival Group The Child Survival Group in Punjab has conducted six quarterly meetings so far. The Child Survival group created its own core group that would meet fortnightly to check the progress of the implementation of the project and then later share the progress with the meetings of the CSG. Similarly, Child Survival group in Sindh has conducted five meetings so far and has made some progress on the matters related to pneumonia and diarrhea. It was suggested that the recommendations of the Child Survival Group be made binding upon the government instead of the traditional role of advisory given to such groups. Moreover a provincial manager stressed the importance of assessing the meetings of CSG on scoring criteria for efficiency and accountability. Environment for Updating Commodities Availability of medicine is a very critical factor that determines the outcomes in the different facets of the health service delivery. Managers in the Sindh expressed satisfaction on the availability of medicines only in the Basic Health Units run by the Peoples Primary healthcare initiative. Punjab has not yet developed a medicine estimation method so the managers complained about the lack of supply on the basis of actual Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 54 demand. The quality enforcement of the drugs in the market was described by one manager as: “We are getting daily alerts about spurious and sub-standard drugs; even some are manufactured by registered firms reflecting poor regulatory control by DRAP. One example of such neglect is tablet marketed with a brand name of ‘Voltac’. Two entirely different salts (Valsartan and Valproic Acid) are being registered and sold with the carrying brand name. This is a very serious concern.” Representative of a District Health Authority in Punjab described the additional burdens of medicine in these words: “The district can spend up to 5 lac rupees per year on the purchase of medicines to meet sudden increase in demand of medicines arising out of any disease out-break. However, we keep this amount reserved to cover days Zaireen come to attend Urs of Baba Farid Shakar Ganj and relocate medicines from one health facility to another to meet the emergency needs.” Furthermore, the managers strongly urged the need of generating local evidence for greater acceptance of the commodities .In this context; examples came out of the PAIMAN project and introduction of Chlorhexidine