this study was to conduct a pharmaceutical manufacturing feasibility for the local production of updated commodities, while taking into consideration market forces and the potential demand. The landscape analysis encompasses all levels from policy to the end user at community level by assessing the factors influencing policy translation and commodity access that will lead to reduction in the disease burden. The study further aimed at exploring the opportunities for engaging pharmaceutical companies and other relevant stakeholders for manufacturing and provision of updated Pneumonia and Diarrhea related commodities in Pakistan. The landscape analysis is based on the following comprehensive conceptual framework, adapted from problem-driven frameworks of World Bank and Overseas Development Institute. Figure 3: Research Framework of Landscape Analysis 5 1.3 AIMS AND OBJECTIVE The goal of this baseline landscape analysis study was to provide insight on barriers and facilitators to policy translation and commodity access in the public and private sectors at national and provincial levels. The audience of the research would mainly be the government, academia, UN agencies and pharmaceutical companies. It is envisaged that this landscape analysis would not only benefit in evidence based policy making but would contribute in policy translation at the highest level. This study report is in overall compliance with the ToRs (see Annex 1) and its specific objectives which were to: • Review and provide insight on barriers and facilitators to policy translation and commodity access in public and private sector; • Identification of gaps in existing policies relevant Child Survival strategies with their relevance to GAPPD; • Assess the prescribing behaviors and treatment approaches among public and private sector service providers and vertical programs LHW program; • Recommend the steps for inclusion of Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities into essential medicine lists, procurement lists based on evidence-based briefing papers and policy notes including GAPPD on the benefits of Amoxicillin-DT, Zinc-DT, Co-packaged ORS and Zinc, Pulse Oximeters, and Oxygen; • Mapping in details of key stakeholders and activist at all levels; • Draft a framework to define the roles and responsibilities of key implementing stakeholders to utilize further for child survival working groups. 7 LITERATURE REVIEW 8 This chapter synthesizes literature reviewed for conducting the landscape analysis and subsequently developing the accountability framework and feasibility analysis. In the first section, description of global scenario along with Federal and provincial level policies and strategies are reviewed. This section further captures the existing management practices for