Health Survey 2012-13, <www.nips.org.pk/abstract_files/PDHS%20Final%20Report%20as%20of%20Jan%2022-2014.pdf > 3 Interventions to address deaths from childhood pneumonia and diarrhea equitably: what works and at what cost? The Lancet, Volume 381, No. 9875, p. 1417-1429, 20 April 2013. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 204 contained in the Landscape Analysis Report will yield insights into the gaps, barriers and facilitators to policy translation and commodity access. Research Methodology: The research team would have to prepare an inception report outlining detailed study methodology as per UNICEF research standards on research and studies. The team will have detailed discussion with UNICEF programme staff and PMER (Research Specialist) in order to prepare inception report and research methodology matrix. UNICEF PMER will provide guidance on the template for inception report and research matrix. Only after delivery of satisfactory inception report as per standards, the consultant would be allowed to proceed with research work. A reference group will be established to quality assure all key deliverables and the consultant/s would have to incorporate all feedback provided by the Reference Group and PMER Section of the UNICEF. Research Ethics: The study will ensure ‘do no harm’ approach is used by research organization following strong ethical guidelines to protect adolescent girls participating in the research; and to managing any associated risks which arise in the course of the study. Throughout the research process, data collection and report writing, the research team would abide by the rules and principles laid down in UNICEF procedures on Research Ethics and UNEG guidelines on ethical research and evaluation. Final Report should follow the UNICEF research standards, and UNICEF quality assurance procedure. The research team will receive these guidelines at the first meeting after contract has been issued. All the major deliverables would be reviewed and the final report will have to be cleared by UNICEF Forum on Research and Evaluation Ethics Review Forum (FREER) or some other ethical review body. UNICEF Pakistan will have all the property rights on raw research data and reports. Proposed Structure of the Report: In preparing the study results, the findings will be evidence based and will have clear references to the source. An indicative structure of the report is mentioned below and will be discussed with UNICEF team for finalization: • Title page • Table of contents • Executive Summary with the purpose of the study, key findings, conclusions and recommendations in priority order ( 3-4 pages) • Background/context of the