to enhance the focus on morbidity and mortality in children due to pneumonia and diarrhea. It is pertinent to mention here that the health department of Sindh has already developed a draft of Child Survival Strategy highlighting issues concerning child health. Moreover, Sindh and Punjab have made some progress by incorporating dispersible tablets (DTs) in the provincial essential medicine lists, while there is a need for updating IMNCI guidelines and health information systems according to the global recommendations for pneumonia and diarrhea. CSGs were found to have a huge potential for coordinating these efforts. Considering service delivery is mainly provided in private facilities, there is a critical need to engage the Landscape Analysis for Policy Translation and Commodity Access in Pakistan vii private sector. Furthermore, replacing the old regimen of treatment with the DTs would require augmented advocacy efforts for increased political commitment. In order to comprehend the current clinical management practices and prescribing behaviours, perspective of different stakeholders at the service delivery level for this research was considered. A general understanding prevailed among almost all respondents that lack of hygiene; poor sanitation and unclean drinking water were the root causes of pneumonia and diarrhea. Concept of dispersible tablet was not found to be particularly prevalent, especially among facility and pharmacy in-charges. “Tablet” was instantly perceived as a hard substance, difficult for children to swallow, hence unsuitable for their consumption. However, all respondents demonstrated a certain level of acceptability towards the adoption of new commodities. It was established that prescribing behaviour of the healthcare providers needed to be modified through engaging healthcare commissions, PPA, FPAP as well as pharmaceutical manufacturers. Feasibility analysis conducted to assess the market potential for updated Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities revealed that presently the local industry is meeting 70% demand of all the finished products. The quality of locally manufactured drugs is regulated by Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP), which on average takes 15-18 months to process registration of a new product. This process however, could be expedited if the public interest demands so. Although DRAP’s rules currently do not allow marketing of co-packaged Zinc and ORS, but has no restriction on co-packaging of the same after purchase. While one local company was found to be licensed and manufacturing Amoxicillin DT, over 15 companies were already Landscape Analysis for Policy Translation and Commodity Access in Pakistan viii registered with DRAP to manufacture Zinc DT and