the thematic areas relevant to the policy change, translation and implementation. 4.1.1 Political Will & Commitment It was reported that recently the focus on the health has increased at the political level. Specifically, Punjab has improved the health budget and the health department has been bifurcated into two departments for an efficient service delivery. However, the managers stressed the need of advocacy with the Federal and provincial governments for the commitment required to manage the Pneumonia and Diarrhea at the health system level. Quoting the example of efforts to control the Dengue fever in Punjab and Polio in Sindh, managers highlighted the need of a strong political commitment at the top level. However, it was noted that these special efforts have compromised the focus on efforts like EPI, as expressed by a Technical Expert in Sindh, “All our efforts are funnelled towards the eradication of other diseases which has neglected treatment of diseases like Pneumonia and Diarrhea.” Similar concerns were echoed by the health managers in Punjab as well. Another overwhelming suggestion that came from the managers and the technical experts was that the government should take the lead role in its implementation. Donor led programs have to be championed by the government in order to make it sustainable. Moreover, it was suggested that the Child Survival group should include a member from the health secretariat. An overwhelming finding was that those projects have more success rates where they are backed by bureaucracy. Furthermore it was found out that the recent IT based communication platforms have increased the 35 communication between the stakeholders. These platforms have increased the connectivity of the provincial management with the district health offices. One manager stated, “Mostly we are receiving orders on Whatsapp and we are required to submit our response after the compliance of orders.” Furthermore, the support by UNICEF was found out to be a major pushing force required to bring the desired change. 4.1.2 Focus of Policy & Strategies In spite of being aware that Diarrhea and Pneumonia are major killers of children, it was reported that no defined child health policy existed at any governance level. However, the Government of Sindh has taken the lead and drafted ‘New Born Survival Strategy’ keeping Sindh Health Sector Strategy as a base document. Some key interventions proposed in Draft ‘Child Health Strategy of Sindh’ are’ Sick new born care units; Under 5 care units;