your suggestions to improve the monitoring and supervision of child health services in your district? 9. How frequently do you conduct evaluation to monitor the achievement of your facilities? • Have you generated or published any report/s of your evaluations. Kindly give some examples. 10. Do you have liaison with the local community, key persons, Community Based Organizations (CBOs) or elected representatives of the district? • What role do they play for acceptance of health services provided by you? Kindly give some examples about the support they support. • What is usefulness of local community liaison? 11. What is your user-charges/fee policy for services, particularly services of pneumonia and diarrhea? • What are your suggestions to minimize the cost as a barrier for underutilization of these services? 12. What is your impression of current utilization of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services at primary level health facilities and in the community? How do you rate it as under, normal or over utilization? • If you are asked to take measures at various levels for improvement of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services, what measures will you suggest at managerial, facility and community level? Midterm Evaluation Report 103 INTERVIEW GUIDES OF DISTRICT IRMNCH COORDINATOR District IRMNCH Coordinator Before starting interview, remember to : ⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit ⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of evaluation objectives ⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 10. First I’d like to ask you about the role of LHWs in reducing morbidity and mortality associated with Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children. • What are the policies and guidelines for LHW Programme to deliver child health services? • In your opinion, how adequate are these policies/guidelines to ensure the availability of services, particularly for the management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 11. To what extent the programme is sustainable after regularization of LHWs and provincilization of the programme • Probe about financial sustainability of the programme in relation to further expansion and improvement of existing quality of services 12. What is the status/coverage of LHWs in your district? • Is required number of LHWs present to cover your entire district? If not, what are the reasons for unavailability of LHWs? • In your opinion, how availability of LHWs can be improved in your district? 13. What do you think about the competence of LHWs to manage diarrhea and