of Pneumonia and Diarrhea.” Essential Medicine List and MSDP Updated UNICEF assisted Federal and Provincial governments in Pakistan for the provision of updated six commodities for management of EQ: What evidences exists to see the likelihood of the project results are sustained and will be adopted by the Government to ensure that the ultimate goal of the programme is achieved? Midterm Evaluation Report 62 Pneumonia and Diarrhea. In continuation of this policy, Essential Medicine List for the healthcare facilities was updated by the government, thereby including L-ORS and Amoxicillin, Zinc Dispersible Tablets in the EML. Provincial DHIS official informed, “Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT and L-ORS have been made part of the Essential Medicine List.” In Punjab, updating of Minimum Service Delivery Package for the healthcare facilities has been done focusing P&D for the health and well-being of under 5 Children. Six new commodities introduced by UNICEF to improve Pneumonia and Diarrhea management and services through P&D project (Amoxicillin & Zinc DT, Lo-ORS & Zinc DT, ARI Timers, Pulse Oximeters and Oxygen for appropriate levels of service delivery) are now part and parcel of the MSDP for the healthcare facilities. Whereas in Sindh, MSDPs are still under revision/update as per GAPPD recommendations through the Healthcare Commission. UNICEF, continues the procurement of quality assured commodities for Pneumonia and Diarrhea till end of the year, 2019. Government has included L-ORS, Amoxicillin DTs and Zinc DTs for P&D in the Procurement Lists of healthcare facilities, which will ensure the availability of these drugs at the healthcare facilities even after the year 2019. According to District managers in Punjab and Sindh, procurement of medicines at the district level is being carried out through a central rate contract list, which is awarded at the provincial levels by the health departments. The revision of IMNCI guidelines, addition of DTs and L-ORS in EML and Procurement Lists, updating of DHIS reporting tool and inclusion of six commodities in MSDP have all contributed substantially in achieving a good part of the goal of sustainability of P&D project. These efforts on the part of Government will impact well beyond the achievement of project objectives as the future need assessments and performance analysis shall be made on the basis of these revised tools. The above mentioned arrangements done by Government clearly depict their intent and commitment to making P&D project sustainable even when UNICEF assistance is concluded. Finding: Challenges faced are