plans. 7. The process of prequalification of manufacturers was not up to the mark. It does not accurately judge the production capacity of manufacturer due to which medicines were not supplied within the duration of sixty day time period. The delayed supplies, thus, exerts an extra burden on medicines SCMS. 0606 LESSONS LEARNED SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 58 LESSONS LEARNED 06 The lessons learned from the study are as follows 1. Department of health and vertical programs have their own logistics management information systems which were designed according to their needs. The process of integration of LMIS with revised DHIS will be a challenging activity which require continuous technical and financial support. 2. The process of registration of new generic or formulation with DRAP is time taking process. The national pharmaceutical manufacturers are least interested in production of medicines whose market is not developed. 3. Supply chain activities are interdependent with each other. Performance of one activity affects the others. 0707 RECOMMENDATIONS SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 62 RECOMMENDATIONS 07 7.1.1 Immediate Recommendations 1. The health facilities should be provided a computerized / android LMIS, for inventory of tracer elements on immediate basis. The data should be compiled on daily basis. The inventory software should be capable to provide an automated stock out reports, expiry calendar, medicines forecasting, distribution and reorders. 2. Based on the morbidity data and stock out reports, the medicines forecasting should use mix method to compare consumption method with morbidity method. Apart from that, the members of the procurement committee, physicians; with strong clinical knowledge and Hospital pharmacist should also be included for data collection and decisions. 3. Immediate steps should be taken for strengthening of DTL of Sindh; for quality assurance of medicines procured for public health facilities. 4. The basic technology and support process for integration of LMIS with revised DHIS should be planned and designed. It should be aligned with continuous financial and technical support for implementation and maintenance. The plan should comprehend data mapping, system synchronization, software updates and customization. It should address other system disruption and stakeholder’s communication. The WHO definitions of “opening stock balance”, “stock out” and “stock on hand” should be used to create harmony and synchronization of LMIS with revised DHIS. 5. As an interim measure, a master list of health facilities, commodities etc. of partners, stakeholder and others who support the cause for Diarrhea