formulation. Similarly the demand for low osmolarity ORS is not very different. Most of these commodities are currently being supplied to cater to specific demand of pedestrians at select institutions. 71 5.3.1 Supply of Pneumonia and Diarrhea Commodities Supply of Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities was assessed by reviewing availability status of these commodities, at targeted public sector and private sector health facilities (GP Clinic) and its surrounding pharmacies. Overall, syrup amoxicillin, syrup Zinc and parenteral fluids (Ringers lactate and 0.45% Normal/Dextrose Saline) were available at most of the assessed public sector health facilities in the rural areas. Low Osmolarity ORS was available in about half of the facilities. Amoxicillin injection was also available at majority of the health facilities. Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT and Co-packaged ORS with Zinc were however, not found at any of targeted facilities at the time of survey in both Sindh and Punjab. Amoxicillin and Zinc DT or Co-packaging of ORS with Zinc, were not found at any of the assessed health facilities in the Punjab and Sindh. As mentioned above, supply of updated Diarrhea and Pneumonia commodities by the pharmaceutical companies is even limited in the urban areas, including mega cities as Lahore. 5.3.1.1 Unique Tertiary Care Supply Model In Punjab, the peak demand is generated at The Children Hospital and The Institute of Child Health Lahore, an 1100 bed premier children’s tertiary care health facility of the Province, which receives 2800-3000 patients in its OPD daily. The institution has devised a unique supply model to cater to the need of Diarrhea commodities. Though it makes the bulk purchase from local manufacturers, but owing to the inherent capacity, it also manufactures Zinc and ORS within the facility. If the standard is validated and found to be cost effective, it may be replicated at other tertiary care institutions in the country. At the Children Hospital and he Institute of Child Health Lahore, around 1200 dosages of Zinc Sulphate (10/20 mg); 1000 in syrup form and 200 (20 percent) in sachet form, are dispensed every day, suffice to serve 12 days need of about 100 patients (3.3. to 3.5 percent of total OPD). While a key local pharmaceutical company manufactures the suspension, the sachets are prepared inside the hospital under supervision of the Department of Pharmacy. Similarly, while on average 80 sachets of Low osmolarity ORS of key local brand are issued daily in the OPD, ready