Health Centres (RHCs) at Markaz division, and outreach workers. Private sector also participate actively in health service provision, as majority of sick children in urban areas and a significant proportion in semi-urban areas use private sector facilities for child health services. Delivery system of health services within the country holds many deficiencies like limited geographical access to facilities, poor physical infrastructure, unavailability of adequately trained staff, paucity of medical equipment and supplies and inadequate referral services (Rosen & Conly, 1996), culminating into questionable healthcare for the children of Pakistan. National household surveys conducted in Pakistan (Pakistan Integrated Household Survey, 2001 and PDHS, 2008 and 2013) further illustrate the staggering situation of childhood health services and survival of children beyond the age of five. Even though over the last decade, there is significant reduction in infant and childhood mortality but still it is one of the five nations contributing to half of the world’s child mortality, with Infant Mortality Rate at 53.9 and Under Five Mortality Rate at 79 per 1,000 live births (PDHS, 2013). Despite a decline in under-five mortality over year’s country still lag behind to achieve Sustainable Goals target. Presently greatest burden of this mortality is on Province of Baluchistan and Punjab. Table below gives contribution of each province in burden of under-five deaths. Estimates made by the UNICEF and WHO in 2015, showed that Pneumonia (15%) and Diarrhea (9%) are one of the major contributors to childhood deaths in Pakistan, as illustrated in the figure below. Figure 2: Causes of under-five mortality in Pakistan during year 2015 4 1.2 RESEARCH FRAMEWORK The landscape analysis was conducted to identify the barriers and facilitators for the availability of the updated essential commodities for Pneumonia and Diarrhea. This analysis intends to bridge the gaps in bringing about specific policy change, its translation and implementation for the Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities, while keeping in view the political economy context of Pakistan. The findings of baseline landscape analysis are used to assign specific roles and responsibilities to the relevant stakeholders in the form of a joint accountability framework. A key component of this study was to conduct a pharmaceutical manufacturing feasibility for the local production of updated commodities, while taking into consideration market forces and the potential demand. The landscape analysis encompasses all levels from policy to the end user at community level by assessing the factors influencing policy translation and commodity