the survey indicated, Zinc sulphate in syrup form was found at majority of visited health facilities and pharmacies, but dispersible formulation, which is now a preferred choice as per WHO recommendations, was not available at any surveyed health facility and pharmacy. The production capacity of five pharmaceuticals mentioned above is 5.5 million tablets of Zinc Sulphate per day. With the existing capacity, the requirement can be collectively met by five producers in just 18 work days, provided production continues in full capacity (in three shifts). If only three pharmaceuticals are engaged (ZAFA, ATCO and FEROZSONS) having joint capacity to produce 3.75 million tablets per day, this requirement can be met in 26-27 days; while only two companies (ZAFA and FEROZSONS), geographically located in Northern and Southern regions of the country, can jointly meet this requirement in 36 days. At present however, only ZAFA and Well n Well are manufacturing dispersible tablets but the quantity produced is far short of requirement due to want of demand. In the year 2016, ZAFA produced only 0.5 82 percent of total national Zinc DT requirement, equivalent to 0.12 percent of its maximum production capacity. 5.6.3 Low Osmolarity ORS The estimated need for Low Osmolarity ORS is calculated on assumption that each child on average requires 3 sachets of 20.5 gm/l or 6 sachets of 10.2 g/l. Considering prevalence of Diarrhea in under five children to be 23 percent, 21.2 million sachets of 20.5 g/l or 42.4 million sachets of 10.2g/l of low osmolarity ORS will be needed to meet the requirement according to the burden of disease. The existing production capacity of five manufacturers is 180,000 sachets of 20.5 g/l per day, which can be manufactured collectively in 118 days (<16 weeks). Since the joint production capacity of two companies (ATCO and FEROZSONS) is 120,000 sachets per day, together they can meet this requirement in 177 days (<27 weeks). 5.7 PEST ANALYSIS PEST Analysis refers to Politico-legal, Economic, Socio-cultural and Technological factors, which may cause beneficial or adverse effects on the local pharma industry. These are external factors that may create potential opportunities for and threats to the production of up-dated Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities, and are discussed as under: 5.7.1 Politico-legal • Political will to reduce neonatal and child morbidity and mortality • Commitment by the respective provincial governments to increase share of health in the annual budgets • Allocation of required amount