“LHWs are playing multiple roles at one time which comprises prevention, first aid treatment and follow up. They give awareness to the mothers of children about hand wash, sanitation etc. LHWs role is also very critical in vaccination.” It was reported that LHWs have been using Amoxicillin, Paracetamole, Zinc Sulphate and ORS as a first aid management for Pneumonia and Diarrhea. 4.1.7.1 LHW Coverage Almost all of the managers unanimously voiced the need of reducing households covered by LHWs to 1000 households from current level of 1200-1500 household per LHW. According to them, this number of households was putting strain on performance of LHWs and was affecting their efficiency in delivering the services. Managers noted that human resource is available for recruitment and selection but the financial constraints limit their ability to hire more LHWs for the required coverage. 4.1.7.2 LHW Program after 18th Amendment Most of the managers expressed their satisfaction on pace of the LHW program after devolution. Initially, after the eighteenth amendment, the program faced some serious issues in budgeting, salaries, recruitment, selection and other related matters. However most of these problems have been overcome and now program is running smoothly. The health managers expressed satisfaction on performance of the program at the district level. They were of the view that due to devolution of powers, pace of implementation has increased and the districts have more autonomy in program implementation. However, the managers uniformly voiced the concern of certain political influence on the program. 4.1.7.3 Guidelines for the LHW program According to the health managers in Punjab and Sindh, LHWs are provided guidelines by the National Program. 40 These comprehensive guidelines are about prevention, treatment and follow up mechanism. These guidelines are pictorial and are in the form of cards like “Sehat Ki Dastak”. 4.1.7.4 LHW’s Coordination and Communication It was highlighted by managers in both the provinces that it is highly important that the program develops effective coordination mechanism with other stakeholders working in districts like PPHI, IHS, HANDS, Indus, and Merlin, etc. 4.1.7.5 Monitoring of LHWs It was found out that the LHWs are being monitored at two levels. The district health administration performs regular monitoring and supervisory visits. Secondly, LHS is also supposed to visit 20-25 LHWs on monthly basis and check the stock outs, its’ excess or misuse of medicine. Special visits are also arranged in case of any emergency or extraordinary situation.