i The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) Ending Preventable Child Deaths from Pneumonia and Diarrhoea by 2025 The integrated Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) WHO Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data End preventable deaths: Global Action Plan for Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea. 1. Pneumonia – prevention and control • 2. Diarrhea – prevention and control • 3.Child mortality – prevention and control 4.Child welfare • 5.National health programs • 6.Developing countries • I.World Health Organization ISBN 978 92 4 150523 9 (NLM classification: WC 207) © World Health Organization/The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) 2013 All rights reserved. Publications of the World Health Organization are available on the WHO web site (www.who.int) or can be purchased from WHO Press, World Health Organization, 20 Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland (tel.: +41 22 791 3264; fax: +41 22 791 4857; e-mail: bookorders@who.int). Requests for permission to reproduce or translate WHO publications –whether for sale or for non-commercial distribution– should be addressed to WHO Press through the WHO web site (www.who.int/about/licensing/copyright_form/en/index. html). The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the World Health Organization concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full agreement. The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are endorsed or recommended by the World Health Organization in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters. All reasonable precautions have been taken by the World Health Organization to verify the information contained in this publication. However, the published material is being distributed without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. The responsibility for the interpretation and use of the material lies with the reader. In no event shall the World Health Organization be liable for damages arising from its use. Design and layout by: www.paprika-annecy.com Printed in France. Ending Preventable Child Deaths from Pneumonia and Diarrhoea by 2025 The integrated Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) 1 The Integrated Global