that doctors conducted comprehensive check-ups, asked them to revisit for a follow-up examination and also encouraged to return in case of emergencies. A parent from Sindh reinforced this view, “Doctor advised us to visit after some days. He also asked to visit for routine checkup. In case of emergency, I can visit the doctor prior to given time.” On the contrary, it was observed that many doctors weren’t that thorough and almost dismissive at times, failing to elaborate on patients’ symptoms and sending them off with unexplained prescriptions and intravenous transfusions. Such parents sought services elsewhere. A parent from Sindh complained, “Doctor didn’t tell me anything, he just asked me to take the prescription and get the medicine.” Dissatisfied parents displayed eagerness to go to a higher health facility. This resonated with a parent from Sindh, “They didn’t tell us what to do in case the child’s condition become critical. In that case we will go to Civil Hospital.” However, some patients also found the higher health facilities to be their only option due to free medication, accessibility and availability of doctors, despite being disappointed with their results. Parents’ Preconceived Notions – Parents attended a particular health facility due to their own personal preferences based on their past experiences or simply through their own preconceived notions. Some had a preference for a particular doctor, some for a specific hospital and some for certain medicines. 63 Summary of Perspective of Parents/Guardians • Wanted access to clean drinking water and clean and hygienic surroundings. • Wanted government facilities to provide good quality services including free of cost medicines, availability of all medicines, better accessibility to the facility (through transport or through proximity within the community), 24 hours availability of doctors, less waiting time to see a doctor, infrastructure and support facilities at the hospital (less congested space, seating arrangement, clean drinking water). • Wanted governments to act more responsible towards their wellbeing and wanted governments efforts more visible in the healthcare system. 4.2.8.4 Suggestions for Improvement The parents had plenty of suggestions for improving health facilities. Some categorically mentioned aspects for improvement including, free medication, availability of pediatricians and lady doctors, 24-hour service, better lab testing, more staff recruitments, more spacious health facilities etc. Moreover, all medicines should be available at the hospital. In a nutshell, respondents wanted improvements in all the determinants, which have been discussed in this section. 65 FEASIBILITY