and Karachi. There was no shortage of medicines in the market especially in Punjab but there was a delay from the manufacturers in supply which indicates that the open market was the first priority area of the manufacturers. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 51 0505 CONCLUSION SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 54 CONCLUSION 05 1. The health system of Pakistan is now devolved. The supply chain system of medicines is totally provincial subject. It was observed that overall the public health supply chain system in Pakistan was predominantly mixture of “push” and “pull” system. But in case of unavailability of demanded medicines it becomes “Push” system. 2. Successful development and implementation of inventory management software will facilitate the LMIS and the barriers in report submission could be resolved. It will lead to better healthcare service delivery and access to medicine. In Punjab, prescription management information system, linked with LMIS is likely to produce more information for analysis including prescription behavior. 3. Many online links are required to develop LMIS and DHIS integration. In DHIS reports quantities of tracer medicines were not shared. On the other hand, DoH does not have web based / computerized inventory management system. As a result, different master sheets with different SoPs may create difficulties in synchronizing the data, particularly in converting it to useful information. 4. The medicines forecasting and quantification should be based on the WHO recommendations to minimize the stock-outs. The gap of availability of tracer medicines should be covered. 5. The capacity of medicines stores at health facility level are enough for medicines supplies. The staff members who were handling the pharmaceuticals were not capable enough to understand and implement the WHO recommendations. Pharmacists were not frequently available for handling the medicines as per WHO recommendations. 6. The distribution of medicines from district warehouse to health facilities were not based on any forecast criteria. Medicines were not distributed in the form of therapies / courses / kits rather unjustified proportions of medicines were distributed. Department of health do not have suitable vehicles for pharmaceutical transportation which creates hurdle in distribution plans. 7. The process of prequalification of manufacturers was not up to the mark. It does not accurately judge the production capacity of manufacturer due to which medicines were not supplied within the duration of sixty day time period. The delayed supplies, thus, exerts an extra burden on medicines SCMS.