spread across the country to effectively implement the project activities in their specific areas. Efficiency Building local capacities through engagement of existing partners and identifying new partners Prioritize areas for local partnership based on the findings of MTE Short term +++ UNICEF Project Management Team Implementing partners Midterm Evaluation Report 128 Assumption Link with Project Outcomes Findings of MTE based on DAC Criteria DAC Linkage Recommendation Proposed Action Timeline Priority Prime Responsibility Supporting Role 10. Province and federal level stakeholders share the same vision for improved diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Policy Change Decentralization of health sector has created dichotomies among federal level and provinces. The project attempts to bridge this gap by supporting certain platforms to build a shared vision. Relevance Strengthen federal, provincial linkages and coordination to implement National Health Vision and provincial policies/strategies priorities focusing on health system strengthening for improved management P&D Encourage participation of federal representative in CSG/TWG Short term +++ M/o NHSR&C and Health Departments UNICEF Project Management Team Cross-sharing of challenges, lessons learnt among the provinces Short term ++ UNICEF Project Management Team M/o NHSR&C and Health Departments 11. Ownership of the initiatives at district level health management. Policy Implementation Ownership of the project interventions is being built through strengthening the existing service delivery by improving management practices of healthcare providers, mainly outreach workers and primary level facilities Effectiveness Revitalization of district level decision-making and coordination platform for enhancing ownership, side by side focusing on district specific gaps in provision of updated commodities and capacity building (DHIS-2, LMIS, IMNCI) implementation commitment and sustainability Building district capacities on forecasting, procurement, distribution, maintenance and warehousing Long term +++ Implementing partners District Health Department Linkage of DHIS with LMIS Medium term + District Health & Population Management Teams UNICEF Project Management Team Midterm Evaluation Report 129 Assumption Link with Project Outcomes Findings of MTE based on DAC Criteria DAC Linkage Recommendation Proposed Action Timeline Priority Prime Responsibility Supporting Role 12. Government has sufficient resources to ensure sustainable commodities supply. Policy Translation Inclusion of updated commodities in key government documents (MSDP/EPHS, Essential medicines list, provincial procurement lists) shows government financial commitment.. Efficiency and Effectiveness Advocacy on the benefits of updated commodities for replacing existing finances for alternative procurement Support to provincial health departments in sustainable implementation of integrated HLMIS through development of PC1 Medium term ++ UNICEF Project Management Team Provincial Health Departments 13. Relevant