products, and inclusion of zinc on the essential drug list have all helped to establish an environment conducive to a zinc programme. In addition, Nepal’s Ministry of Health has collaborated with partners to train both public and private sector health personnel in key districts, coordinate the development of promotional materials, and encourage local manufacturing of quality zinc products at an affordable price. In Benin, the Ministry of Health and UNICEF are working closely to introduce a diarrhoea treatment kit – containing both ORS and zinc tablets – through the public health system in areas with the highest diarrhoea prevalence rates. And in Madagascar, the Ministry of Health is working closely with the United States Agency for International Development and UNICEF to pilot zinc-related diarrhoea management training in several districts at both the community and health-facility level, with a view to reaching at least half the country’s 110 districts by end-2009. The challenges of scaling up zinc and increasing usage rates of ORS are steep, but not prohibitive. A renewed call to action is needed to ensure that increasing coverage of diarrhoea treatment interventions becomes an international priority. Sources: Global Zinc Task Force, 2009; UNICEF Supply Division, 2009. FIGURE 24 BOX 9 A renewed call to action: Making zinc and low-osmolarity ORS an international priority 29 2006 2007 2008 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 73.7 157.9 20.5 A 7-point plan for comprehensive diarrhoea control 4 SECTION 30 Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done A 7-point plan for comprehensive diarrhoea control 4 We know what needs to be done to reduce the burden of childhood diarrhoea. A package of proven prevention and treatment measures are now available that, if taken to scale, would have a profound impact on reducing child deaths and would lead to a signiﬁcant reduction in the diarrhoea burden in the medium to long term. 31 Treatment package The treatment package focuses on two main elements, as laid out in the UNICEF and WHO 2004 joint statement:43 1. Fluid replacement to prevent dehydration 2. Zinc treatment. Oral rehydration therapy is the cornerstone of ﬂuid replacement. New elements of this approach include low-osmolarity ORS, which are more eﬀective at replacing ﬂuids than the previous ORS formulation, and zinc treatment, which decreases diarrhoea severity and duration. Important additional components of the package are continued feeding, including breastfeeding, during the diarrhoea episode and