factor of acceptance or rejection of such medicine.” There were mixed responses of GPs as to whether the treatment of Diarrhea and Pneumonia was affordable in their catchment area or not. The GPs also had varying opinions about the approximate cost of Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment. A couple of GPs from Sindh estimated the cost to be PKR 200-300, while another one from Sindh believed the treatment cost to be between PKR 500-700. One of the GPs in Sindh voiced the lack of cost effectiveness of the nebulizers, “… in private hospitals the cost of nebulizing the child is PKR 600, which is not affordable for poor people.” Some GPs also emphasized social issues like poverty, illiteracy and unemployment, which caused impediment in acquiring proper treatment. A few GPs mentioned that injections were relatively more expensive. Almost all GPs believed that although oxygen was important for the treatment, most of the GPs from Punjab categorically mentioned that their facility did not have oxygen and it appeared that the reason was affordability. GPs frequently cited that the severe cases were referred to a higher public health facility. Most GPs claimed to be quite sympathetic towards their patients and said that they try to be considerate and corporate with them as much as possible. Most of them expressed that they prescribed inexpensive medicines, which were easily available. 4.2.5.2 Trainings of GPs This section is a discussion on issues that are relevant to trainings of GPs. It highlights the need for trainings and those who should be responsible for conducting them. All GPs unanimously agreed that there is a need for trainings and that it would facilitate them and their staff to a great extent. Just a few GPs revealed that they had been provided with some sort of training; still none of the GPs said that there had been any refresher training. DHDC and IMNCI trainings were mentioned. However, majority of the GPs were not provided with any training. The willingness to attend these trainings was quite high among the GPs, regardless of where they would be held. Common suggestions for the venue was at district level or at THQ. Most of the GPs emphasized the need 51 for trainings to keep them updated with the latest developments in the field. A GP from Sindh elaborated, “We have done MBBS in 1996-97… now treatment approaches have changed and we must know about