dose of a measles-containing vaccine (52); • about 92% of children received two doses of Vitamin A (10); • about 55% of caregivers reported seeking appropriate care for suspected pneumonia, and antibiotic treatment was given for about 39% of cases (10); • 33% of children received oral rehydration therapy and continued feeding for diarrhoea (10); • 40% of homes have improved sanitation facilities, and 76% have improved drinking-water sources. Figure 5. Coverage of interventions 0 20 40 60 80 100 39 75 83 84 43 60 63 89 35 31 Exclusive breastfeeding Vitamin A supplementation DTP3 immunization Measles immunization HiB3 immunization Care seeking for pneumonia Antibiotics for pneumonia Diarrhoea treatment (ORS) Improved sanitation facilities Improved drinking-water Source: UNICEF’s State of the World’s Children 2013 (forthcoming) Other data show that almost 3 billion people still rely on inefficient, polluting solid fuels for cooking and heating, and that 1.3 billion have no access to electricity. 6 . An environment for change Challenges and opportunities In 2011-2012, WHO, UNICEF and other partners convened a series of workshops to promote coordinated approaches on pneumonia and diarrhoea control, involving over 400 participants from 36 countries in Africa and Asia. The workshops were followed by interaction with countries to monitor the implementation of recommended actions. While the workshops and follow-up activities demonstrated a strong willingness among country participants to work together across programmes, several challenges were noted (see Box 1). Despite the challenges cited, the countries also identified many opportunities (see Box 2). The global context and environment in which the GAPPD will be applied is changing rapidly, as described below. Box 1. Challenges to scaling up pneumonia and diarrhoea actions identified by countries during the regional workshops • Empowerment: In many cases, the authority to make the changes necessary to facilitate collaboration across programmes (for example, changing budgets and organizational structures) was largely beyond the control of the participants who attended the regional workshops. • Lack of specific guidance: Many countries have child health policies, but they are not explicit with regard to the use of antibiotics by CHWs for the treatment of pneumonia, and in some cases, the use of zinc for diarrhoea treatment or artemisinin combination therapy for malaria treatment. Regulatory, legislative and administrative barriers to iCCM were also noted. • Supply issues: In some countries, vaccines, zinc and treatment for pneumonia and diarrhoea are unavailable in sufficient quantities or as appropriate formulations