finished medicines. In terms of share market, the domestic pharma market is almost equally divided between the Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 127 nationals and the multinational companies. During the past decade, national pharmaceutical industry has shown a progressive growth and has invested substantially in upgrading itself. Currently the industry has the capacity to manufacture a variety of product ranging from simple pills to sophisticated biotech, oncology and value-added Generic compounds. Pakistan, having population of over 200 million, is a developing pharmaceutical market. It’s pharmaceutical spending accounts for less than 1 percent of the country’s GDP; a bit higher than average when compared with regional countries in the South East Asia. With strengthening of the generics sector, the share of generics is expected to increase further due to weaning of major patent drugs. The Pakistan pharmaceutical industry had an export turnover of over $212 million from 2014 to 2015. Many units of Pakistan pharmaceutical industry are approved by regulatory authorities all over the world. The sales in international market have gone almost double during last five years and are likely to increase further with new regional and global opportunities. The Pakistan pharmaceutical industry provides high-quality essential drugs at affordable prices to millions. It is not only growing into technologically strong and selfreliant national pharmaceutical industry but also capturing more and more international markets. The Pakistan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association had adopted “Vision 2025” for the national pharmaceutical industry, under which it is envisioned to increase the exports of medicines to $5 billion in the coming 10 years. Pakistan pharmaceutical Industry is exporting to Egypt, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Iraq, Myanmar, Nepal, Nigeria, Sudan, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Uganda, Uzbekistan, Kenya Cambodia, Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 128 Kirghizstan and Vietnam. The prospects of further expansion of exports are getting brighter day by day due to competitive price and good quality. In order to promote local pharmaceutical industry, there should be least reliance on the products of other countries, but Pakistan being a signatory to WTO, cannot put restrictions on imports, unlike countries, which are still non-signatory to WTO, such as Bangladesh. Similarly, tariff on local industry by the government needs extensive review to facilitate it in competing countries exporting medicines and supplies at more affordable ranges, like India and China, while still maintaining their competitive edge. Most such medicines are manufactured in WHO approved sites of these countries and respective governments keep tariff