you or other staff member received any formal training on forecasting and quantification of medicines and supplies? Midterm Evaluation Report 95 5 In your opinion, what is the use of DHIS in context of management of children suffering from Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Probe: • Are you satisfied with the quality (accuracy of information, completeness and timeliness) of DHIS recording and reporting? If not, how can we improve it? • Does DHIS help keeping the record of referrals made in complicated cases? 6 Do you think that current DHIS indicators sufficiently cover the data requirements for managing Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Do you suggest to include some indicators? • Are any indicators related to new commodities included in the DHIS? If yes, does the facility staff felt any difficulty in using the tools after these changes? • Can you comment on the capacities of staff on using DHIS tools? If there are any gaps, how can these be addressed? 7 Has UNICEF P&D project provided any support to Government in strengthening of comprehensive supply chain management system including forecasting, procurement, distribution, real time stock maintenance, and warehousing involving different programmes and their linkage with DHIS? 8 Has DHIS been updated to include any relevant pneumonia and diarrhea treatment /commodity indicators and linked with LMIS? 9. Has revision of LHWs MIS tools for reporting on updated commodities for management of pneumonia and diarrhea taken place in line with GAPPD as per project requirement? 10. Has the revision, updation and printing of DHIS tools and manuals and software in Sindh taken place? 11. Kindly provide any suggestions for improving DHIS that would facilitate the management of pneumonia and diarrhea? CSG Member Before starting interview, remember to: ⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit ⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of evaluation objectives ⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview During the initial discussion to explain the evaluation, the interviewer and participant should have had the opportunity to introduce themselves and to make small talk to break the ice. You can begin by saying these words to the group of participants: ‘As you know Pneumonia and Diarrhea are common causes of deaths among children under age 5. We are conducting a study to learn about of services being provided to treat and manage these diseases among children and would like to know your views in this regards.