towards updating their existing systems, like inclusion of dispersible tablets in ‘very essential list of medicines’ of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. During the pilot training on the abridged course of in-service IMNCI, participants from these provinces and regions were also trained to Midterm Evaluation Report 42 further enhance capacities of the service providers in their respective areas. Moreover, lessons learned and recommendations given in this Midterm Evaluation (MTE) will be shared with all the provinces and areas for replication and scale up, through National dissemination of MTE report, followed by federal platforms of National RMNCAH TWG. 4.2 Findings against OECD/DAC Criteria In line with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)/ Development Assistance Committee (DAC) criteria, this evaluation assessed the findings against relevance, effectiveness, efficiency, sustainability and cross-cutting areas of equity and gender equality. A set of evaluation questions (EQs) were proposed in the TORs as per OECD/DAC criteria, against which, the findings of the evaluation report have been presented in the following section. 4.2.1 Relevance Relevance has been assessed to determine the extent to which the project suited to the priorities and policies of the target group, recipient and donor. Finding: There is high relevance of the project as Pneumonia and Diarrhea contribute extensively to childhood deaths and morbidity in Pakistan. Pakistan has one of the highest infant mortality rates, with 62 deaths per 1,000 live births, though declined over a period of time from 86 to 62 deaths per 1,000 live births (PDHS 2013; PDHS 2018). Keeping these above-mentioned statistics in view, Pakistan lags behind in Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by the United Nations in 2015, to end preventable deaths of newborn and under-5 children by 2030. Similar is the case with GAPPD targets and timelines pledged by Pakistan. Among all the ailments, Diarrhea and Pneumonia are the prime causes of child mortality in Pakistan. Contribution of these two diseases to under-five (U5) child deaths has remained stubbornly high. In total, Diarrhea, Pneumonia, and malaria collectively contribute to around half of all child deaths each year in Pakistan (Bhutta et al., 2013). The project was implemented to accelerate these efforts, in close coordination with the Government and relevant stakeholders to ensure sustainable improvements. The project had an overarching goal to ensure that relevant national policies are in place, understood, and adhered for prevention, promotion and treatment of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. The project also focused on incorporating Pneumonia