set for multi-year, in addition to annual programming. Costed national health plans should emphasize service integration across programmes for reproductive, maternal, neonatal and child health. They should also include environmental interventions with a focus on pneumonia and diarrhoea control. Plans made by other relevant interventional programmes should be consulted to ensure coordinated budgets, cost-sharing, and resource mobilization. • Identify areas of harmonization and collaboration between programmes and sectors Programmes and sectors work separately for a variety of reasons, and so, suddenly attempting to change this way of working may represent a threat. One way to begin harmonizing efforts is to look at governance structures as well as multiagency/department partnerships and seek opportunities for coordination, or even attempt to modify existing structures. National, regional and district levels should all be considered. Establishing mechanisms, such as a government-led multiagency working group, to facilitate the exchange of information and experiences will help make coordination a norm. Documenting and disseminating best practices and lessons learned when working between programmes/sectors is also helpful. Key cross-cutting areas where greater collaboration is likely to be beneficial include policy development, planning, social mobilization and advocacy, development of guidelines and tools, supply chain, supervision, training, and monitoring and evaluation. Efforts in Cameroon and Kenya to jointly address diarrhoea and pneumonia through household water treatment and improved cookstoves led to gains in joint messaging and distribution (and potentially uptake) (65). See Box 6 for another example of improved coordination. Box 6. Cambodia: Tackling pneumonia and diarrhoea through programme and policy coordination Childhood pneumonia and diarrhoea account for 38% of under-five deaths in Cambodia. Although attention to these two diseases has helped reduce this toll each year, poor, rural communities continue to lose children to these diseases. To address this disparity, PATH, in collaboration with the Cambodia MoH, WHO, UNICEF and other NGOs, implemented the Enhanced Diarrheal Disease (EDD) Initiative in Cambodia from 2011 to 2012. It focused on programme and policy integration to overcome barriers to increased diarrhoea and pneumonia control. The programme, piloted in one district, consisted of a two-pronged approach to build political will and to strengthen policies related to diarrhoea and pneumonia, and then to implement a new integrated package of services within communities. The integrated approach resulted in coordinated policies, improved access to care at the community level, and the implementation of integrated training for Village Health Volunteers (VHV). PATH, alongside key partners, successfully advocated for