what is normally awarded to them through the budget. A two-staged rationalisation exercise takes place; one at the level of the central departments of health, and second at the level of finance departments. • Delays occur at the time of budget releases. A number of procurement officials reported to have received substantial portion of budget releases after quarter 2 of a fiscal year. This results in delays in procurements. In some cases, it was noticed that delayed releases resulted in surrender (non-utilisation) of budgeted amounts. It was also reported in some cases that manufacturers refused to supply commodities against work orders released in late May or early June. • Budget for procurement of medicines is funded through recurrent and development budgets. Budgets of DDOs are transparent and the heads of ‘procurement of drugs and medicines’ and ‘procurement of equipment’ are clearly shown. However, information of procurement of the type of drugs and medicines within the budget is not provided. Budget provided to outsourced entities (e.g. PPHI, IHS in Sindh) are provided in a single-line. There is an issue of transparency as it is not clearly how much funds are to be allocated by these outsourced entities on procurement of medicines. Similarly, on the development side, projects also normally include singleline budgets. • Information on amount that has been allocated and approved as part of the budget is provided roughly 3-4 months after the approval by the Provincial Assembly to the spending units. Secondly, the funds are often reported to have released late resulting in delays in issuance of procurement work orders and subsequent delivery. • Procurement officials have limited knowledge of alternative forecasting methods that can be used to forecast medicine procurements. • In 2010 the Council of Common Interest agreed that the Federal Government would provide funding for vertical health programmes till the next National Finance Commission Award. However, in 2017 the Federal Cabinet has decided to gradually reduce funding for vertical health programmes. Going forward, this will raise challenge for the provinces to allocate sufficient funding from their budget. In addition to the above, the following challenges were noted during key informant interviews: 3.6.1. Sindh Province 1. Recently the Sindh Government has changed the system of allocation of budgets for the ‘procurement of drugs and medicines’. Until 2015-16 the budget under this head was allocated to DDOs and hence it was possible to ascertain how much budget was