with DDO powers or under the supervision of PPP, the emergency order can be handled effectively (in government health facilities through LP and PPP with immediate supplies). The LP has limited budget. The medicines issued to the health facility in response to the emergency order, are placed to the districts. It depends upon the availability of medicines at the central warehouse. HF level of KP Baluchistan and FATA manage the emergency procedures through medicines requisition. 20 a. How often are emergency orders placed by the following levels (include product): In PPHI and HANDs, the emergency orders of health facilities were handled by the district warehouse or through immediate procurements. The health facilities IHS have not received the stock because IHS has not received the allocated budget for the procurement of the medicines. Sindh: if medicines requisition is sent to the district office, stocks are issued on the same day depending on the SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 109 Indicators LSAT Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs availability. NP: through LHS, the report to the District Coordinator, later he supplied the stock in monthly meeting. In case if unavailability of the medicines, the regional level office are requested for medicines supplies. This process is completed within2 to 3 days. PPP provides the required medicines with in24 hours to HFs. Punjab: In the case of emergency the order (medicines requisition) is directly placed to the District office. The stock is issued on the same day, depending on the availability of the stock. IRMNCH & NP Punjab handles emergency order of LHWs through courier service. Total time taken from placing an order to receiving of order may take 3 days. The efficiency of courier system should also be monitored. b. How successfully are emergency orders filled for the following levels? In tertiary care hospitals, if medicines are in central rate list and the order has been placed to the manufacture, they cannot procure the medicines form the LP. The delays from the manufacture creates issues. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 110 1.8 Section VIII: Warehousing and Storage Indicators Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH