especially for the underfive marginalized children of communities? • What is the value added in terms of improved delivery of services for Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • Whether the availability of P&D supplies is adequate, timely and whether they are prescribed? • To what extent has the project achieved its goals in enhancing the health outcomes especially of U5 children in the catchment communities in Sindh and Punjab target districts? 3.1.5 Sustainability Sustainability is concerned with measuring whether the benefits of an activity are likely to continue after donor funding has been withdrawn. In order to evaluate sustainability, following questions were framed: • What evidences exists to see the likelihood of the project results are sustained and will be adopted by the Government to ensure that the ultimate goal of the project is achieved? • What internal/external factors and drivers contribute to or constrain the sustainability of the project? • What is required to ensure prospects of sustainability of the project outcomes and the potential for replication or scale up of good practices and/or innovative approaches? 3.1.6 Cross-cutting Areas Equity across the socioeconomic strata, gender equality and human rights based approach are the crosscutting areas considered in this MTE and are, addressed through following questions. The findings regarding these questions were embedded across the OECD/DAC criteria. • To what extent the crosscutting issues such as gender, equity and human rights were taken into account at various levels of planning and implementation? • Are the services provided gender responsive and whether they take the gender and human rights-based approach into account during implementation? Midterm Evaluation Report 25 • What have been the key lessons and experience of healthcare providers, Lady Health Workers and Lady Health Supervisors as agents of change and their contributions to other sectors? 3.2 Evaluation Technique – Mixed Method This MTE employed mixed method approach with both qualitative and quantitative components. Having a formative evaluation design, the MTE relied heavily on qualitative component. A quantitative component was required to answer certain research questions pertaining to efficiency criterion, whereas qualitative data mainly answered the rest of OECD/DAC criteria. Quantitative data was limited to availability of new/revised commodities and their prescription to children in the surveyed health facilities. Qualitative data was collected through key informant interviews and focus group discussions with the relevant stakeholders while quantitative data was gathered through facility checklists and prescription review from the surveyed health facilities. Both