medicine to address the cause; however, the GPs prescribe medicines for the relief of pain and fever while the problem still persists.” 4.2.6.2 Placing Purchase Orders Pharmacy in-charges quite frequently stated that they arranged for new as well as existing medicines in demand, in case they went out of stock. According to their view, placing orders for medicines were dependent upon various factors including: Demand, Price, Quality/Brand, Side effects and Season. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab encapsulated most of these determinants in his response; “if specific product is in demand and doesn’t have any side effects and is not very expensive, then, we place new orders for such new medicine. We don’t place orders of new medicine from merely profit point of view.” A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh emphasized the demand factor and also explained that they were able to assess it well, “We focus on running items. We see the demand of doctors and prescribed medicines to place order for new medicines and assess if we need to change the order.” A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh analyzed the brand and price dynamics in the following words: “We routinely consider placing order for any new drug. We prefer new, cheap and better medicines over the old ones.” There was also a prevalent notion that during a certain season, the demand for Diarrhea medicines increases and it was commonly referred as season of Diarrhea. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab explained that, “… it also varies according to seasonal nature of illnesses...” A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh stressed, “Procuring a new medicine is based on the changes in weather. New illnesses emerge because of changes in weather...” 4.2.6.3 Market Opportunities for DTs The current market for DTs is not very developed according to the GPs and there are many areas that need attention including demand and supply along with awareness about such new form of medicines. Topics focused in this section emerged as themes with regards to market for DTs. A common view among the pharmacy incharges was that there wasn’t much demand for DTs and they were willing to keep them if demand existed. All the Pharmacy in-charges interviewed did not have amoxicillin and Zinc in DT forms in their stores. A few pharmacy in-charges categorically mentioned that he had it in “syrup and injection” form only. The pharmacy in-charges were unanimous that they would keep DTs in stock for sale,