access to water, improved drinking-water safety, adequate sanitation and handwashing with soap—have been shown to be effective in significantly reducing the incidence of diarrhoeal disease.4 These are highlighted as proven prevention interventions in the 7-point strategy for comprehensive diarrhoea control, adopted by UNICEF and WHO in 2009.5 Achieving meaningful health gains from water, sanitation and hygiene interventions requires scaling up to those populations most at risk. Such scaling up depends, in large part, on national enabling environments and policies which recognize and clearly define the roles of ministries (health, water, education, commerce). In addition, engaging key stakeholders, including international organizations, academia, donors, private sector, and NGOs is important for ensuring coordinated funding, action and assessment. Key activities Establish national action plan and targets for access to safe drinking-water, sanitation and hygiene Policy/decision-making level • Coordinate with health, water, sanitation and hygiene actors in prioritizing provision of services with a key objective of reducing pneumonia and diarrhoeal disease (e.g. with common/shared indicators, budgets, strategies) • Strengthen institutional capacity at all levels (i.e. performance monitoring and risk assessments) • Consider creating one common WASH fund • Mobilize resources (grants, carbon credits, private sector) • Establish monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to assess progress in improving WASH and reducing childhood pneumonia and diarrhoea • Develop norms and standards to guide implementation 3 Prüss-Üstün, Bonjour & Corvalán, 2008 4 Fewtrell et al., 2005; Clasen et al., 2007; Waddington et al., 2009 5 UNICEF/WHO (2009). Diarrrhoea: why children are still dying and what can be done. New York, NY, USA, United Nations Children’s Fund; Geneva, Switzerland, World Health Organization (http://www.who.int/maternal_child_ adolescent/documents/9789241598415/en/index.html). Implementation level • Promote a comprehensive package of interventions to prevent and treat diarrhoea and pneumonia, including preventive WASH practices, zinc, ORS, exclusive breastfeeding and vaccines Ensure availability of trained human resources and key commodities required to achieve targets Policy/decision-making level • Assess availability of water and sanitation technologies; consider reducing/eliminating tariffs on imported technologies • Ensure products meet international and national standards (i.e. household water treatment should meet WHO performance targets) • Work with private sector in developing an efficient supply chain Implementation level • Ensure access to safe drinking-water, handwashing facilities and sanitation in all health care facilities by prioritizing services to such facilities. Consider construction of “tippy taps” or handwashing devices that can be made using a 5 litre or 1.5 gallon plastic container that allows for running water without hand contact