in data to manage, extract, compare, explore, and reassemble meaningful pieces from large amounts of data in creative, flexible, yet systematic ways. A "code" as abbreviation or name was attached to each segment. These codes were used as representatives of data segments or "units of meaning" in the data. A coding framework based on the themes given in the interview guides was designed. Transcripts were examined manually to identify codes using thematic content analysis and a system of constant comparison. They were read several times, choosing units of meaning, identifying Midterm Evaluation Report 36 general themes, categorizing and classifying. This involved going through the data several times, making comparisons and connections until no further codes were identified and until data was saturated. Once codes were identified, they were categorized under each of the main themes used in the interview guides. The technical team carried out coding and thematic analysis and differences in opinion was resolved by mutual consensus. Quantitative data analysis was processed using SPSS. Initial task in analysis was to produce draft dummy tables and based on data, graphs and descriptions were included in the report. At the end, triangulation was applied to both qualitative and quantitative findings with secondary data while presenting evaluation findings and recommendations. The evaluation matrix provides a framework on the basis of which the collected data was analyzed and triangulated, as given in Annex 1. 3.6.3 Report Compilation Initially, draft report entailing preliminary findings of data gathered was submitted to UNICEF on which feedback was sought. Draft report was developed, entailing details of evaluation scope and objectives, methodology, evaluation matrix, key findings and recommendations. The draft encompassed the comprehensive quantitative and qualitative analysis of strengths, weaknesses, achievements, and recommendations to improve performance in future. A ‘Theory of Change’ is an integral part of the final report that entailed pathway for course correction and continuity of these interventions beyond the project life. In order to effectively disseminate the findings, the evaluation team developed two case studies based on the achievements and successes of the project to bring sustainable improvement in management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea by health facilities and outreach workers. 3.7 Limitations of the Evaluation This midterm evaluation carries certain limitations that affected the interpretation of the findings. The technical team took appropriate measures and used certain techniques to minimize these limitations. Attribution of the outcomes with project interventions was a key limitation.