in-charge from Sindh reiterated this opinion, “We cannot keep any new medicine until the patient does not demand it and doctor does not prescribe it.” Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 100 Some pharmacy in-charges believed that there was a lack of availability of DTs in the market and they were willing to keep them in their store if they were easily accessible. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab claimed, “It is simply not available in market. Yes, I will keep Amoxicillin and Zinc DTs in my medical store only if it is prescribed by doctor.” A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh justified not keeping DTs in his store due to its unavailability, “There is no specific reason as such for not having such medicine in DTs. It is simply not available in market.” Unawarenessamong Pharmacy In-Charges and Customers – There seemed to be a lack of understanding among the Pharmacy in-charges as to what DTs were. A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh expressed, “We do not have any information about that tablet. Unless the doctor does not prescribe we don’t come to know about such medicines and never place the order.” Those pharmacy in-charges who were well informed about DTs, believed that there was a lack of understanding amongst the customers about the use of DTs. A pharmacy incharge from Punjab revealed, “People have no awareness about usage and usefulness of DTs.” Suggestions for Promotion – The main suggestion to promote DTs was to create and increase demand through prescription from medical practitioners. A pharmacy incharge from Punjab gave a detailed feedback on how to promote DTs, “samples should be available in the market and tool of advertising should be used to promote its demand and sale through different media.” Creating awareness about DTs in order to promote them was quite important according to pharmacy in-charges. They also Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 101 believed that medical representatives and doctors had a role to play in this. A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh stated, “The reason is neither doctors prescribe nor the medical representatives inform others about such medicines.” A pharmacy incharge from Punjab emphasized this need, “… people should also have some awareness about usage and usefulness of such medicine...medical reps should suggest pharmaceutical companies to make such medicine in DTs given their usefulness in treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea.” Such awareness would also be beneficial for over the counter sales. A pharmacy