treating Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Probes: i. In your opinion, does cost play a significant influence over the choice of medicines prescribed and service provider? ii. How commonly do you prescribe a medicine to be bought from market in case of its stock-out? iii. What do you do in case of a non-affording patient? Do you prescribe inexpensive medicines? 11. I want to know, if you have established any liaison with any or more public health facilities for referral? How does health facility staff generally behave with your referred cases of severe pneumonia and diarrhea? i. Do you have linkages with higher level facilities? (e.g. RHC,THQH,DHQH & tertiary care hospital) ii. What is reported experience of patients referred to these facilities? Do they generally receive supportive and considerate treatment? Give some examples. iii. How are patients transported to referral facilities and who pays for transport charges? Do they avail facility or community ambulance services? iv. Do you keep record of referrals and feedbacks? 12. What is the usual monitoring mechanism of outreach services? i. Describe working relationship between LHWs and facilities ii. Do officials (e.g. DDOH, DOH or EDOH) usually make informed or surprised monitoring visits? iii. Do they provide supportive or traditional supervision? Do you get appreciation for good work? 13. I’d now like to ask you to summarize your role in the provision of pneumonia and diarrhea services? What else do you think you need to improve the quality of pneumonia and diarrhea services at community level? i. To what extent are you satisfied with your services? If not, why not? ii. What must be done to improve the quality of pneumonia and diarrhea services at community level? Midterm Evaluation Report 110 GUIDE FOR FOCUS GROUP DISCUSSION (FGDs) WITH COMMUNITY HEALTH WORKERS (LHWs, LHSs) Name of District Name of Health Facility Number of Participants (LHWs and LHSs) Date During the initial discussion to explain the evaluation, the interviewer and participant should have had the opportunity to introduce themselves and to make small talk to break the ice. You can begin by saying these words to the group of participants: ‘As you know Pneumonia and Diarrhea are common causes of deaths among children under age 5. We are conducting a study to learn about of services being provided LHWs and LHSs to prevent and control these diseases among children and would like to know your views in this regards. We