in the last two years Prescribing behavior of the healthcare providers in the private sector is according to the global recommendations Engage the private sector practitioners through Healthcare commissions CSG Sindh Healthcare Commission Number of private providers accessed through SHCC Engage private sector practitioners through regulatory and professional bodies like FPAP, PMA, PMDC, PPA CSG PPA Number of private practitioners included in the training for IMNCI Engaging the private sector through the medical representatives of the pharmaceutical firms CSG UNICEF Number of introductory visits by the medical representatives of the pharmaceutical firms Institute a mechanism for the nominations of Child Survival Awards Provincial Health department UNICEF, WHO Criteria notified for the Child survival awards 99 6.3.2.1 Description of Operational Modalities & Stakeholders The current management practices for the Pneumonia and Diarrhea need to be updated with the global recommendations. Findings suggest that the majority of the healthcare providers are not even aware of the new global recommendations. Lack of trainings on the management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and no emphasis on Pneumonia and Diarrhea in the medical school curriculum has contributed to an overall lack of focus on Pneumonia and Diarrhea. It is of utmost importance that the medical school training addresses the need of treating Pneumonia and Diarrhea in an efficient and updated manner. On the other hand; unregulated private sector presents another significant challenge for changing the prescribing behaviour of the healthcare providers in the private sector. This requires a multi-pronged strategy involving healthcare commission, professional bodies of the healthcare providers and pharmaceutical corporations. It is critically important that the healthcare providers in the public and private sector treat Pneumonia and Diarrhea according to the global recommendations. This change can be brought through a combination of different strategies. Comprehensive training programs, regular refresher courses and an emphasis on the Pneumonia and Diarrhea in the medical school training can bring the necessary focus required for the change in prescribing behaviour. The findings suggest that in addition to the above mentioned activities it would be essential to take on board organizations like FPAP and PPA for changing the prescribing behaviour in the private sector. Furthermore, the role of nascent healthcare commissions needs to be discussed for the required change in the prescribing behaviour. Finally, pharmaceutical firms can play a very important role in changing prescribing behaviour of healthcare providers in the private sector. They have the ability to generate necessary