“tablet” and “powder” can apply for the registration of co-pack. Drug Act 1976, regulates the import, manufacture, storage distribution and sale of the drugs. These drugs are registered under section 7 of drug act 1976. Registration board is the authority of registration of drug. It was observed that period of 3-4 years is required by the DRAP for the completion of registration. Already many applications, committee meetings, industrial inspections are still pending and the number is increasing day by day. For the registration of these medicines, the shortest possible time and the helpful provision of rules of drug registration should be considered. These rules are described in clause 2 (v) and 2 (ix). SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 35 11Minutes of 247th Meeting, Registration Board held on 04th February, 2015. Recently 7.1% chlorhexidine digluconate gel has been registered with DRAP. The process of registration was based on the morbidity needs which were described by the UNICEF. Details of the process has been shared by DRAP in minutes for 247th meeting of Registration Board held on 4th February 201511 . The process of the registration of the Drugs is briefly described here; while detail is mentioned in Annex 3. Clause 2. (V) The Registration Board shall, before registering a new drug for which the research work has been conducted in other countries and its efficacy, safety and quality has been established therein, require the investigation on such pharmaceutical, pharmacological and other aspects, to be conducted and clinical trials to be made as are necessary to establish its quality and, where applicable, the biological, availability, and its safety and efficacy to be established under the local conditions: Provided that under special circumstances to be recorded in writing, the Registration Board may register a drug and require such investigations and clinical trials to be conducted after its registration. Clause 2. (IX) Where it is necessary in the public interest, so to do, the Registration Board may register a drug on its own motion without having received any application for registration. 4.1.1.1 Steps for registration of new formulation 1. The process of registration, for the new formulation, particularly Amoxicillin DT and packaging of ORS & Zinc supplementation consists of the following steps: Collection of reference material, preparing the desk review of impact analysis of Amoxicillin DT and ORS and Zinc co-packaging in other countries. 2. It also involves the consultation with Pharmaceutical Bureau,