difficult to respond to these diseases at systems level. You have to have figures to make and build a response; that is the prime job of the governance structure” Provincial experts expressed serious reservations regarding the validity and reliability of data in the DHIS and MIS of LHWs. According to the managers in Sindh, LQAS is not routinely done which results in the decline of data quality. However, the managers in the Punjab revealed that the Government of Punjab is preparing a ‘Data Validation Manual’ for improving the quality of data. Analysis and Data Utilization Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 60 According to the managers in both the provinces, data has rarely been used as evidence in the policymaking and service delivery. One senior district health official from Punjab vented, “I have never received a single provincial feedback on DHIS data in the twenty years of my service” The main reason behind the problem turned out to be the lack of dedicated staff for the data analysis. It was pointed out that the lack of epidemiologists at the district and provincial level is the main reason behind the problem. It was therefore, suggested to appoint dedicated staff for the analysis of data. IMNCI Guidelines and Training Lack of adequate human resources was found out to be a main barrier in the effective management of pneumonia and diarrhea. A provincial manager form the Punjab stated, “To provide optimum services, a 100% increase is required in the existing pool of sanctioned posts for nearly all cadres to meet international standard of patient doctor and nurse patient ratio.” Health managers from Sindh told that recently a shortened version (6 days) of IMNCI trainings has started. The trainings in Sindh highlighted the importance of the usage of the Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT and low osmolarity ORS in the management of pneumonia and diarrhea. One manager from Sindh stated, “We fully endorse recent reduction in IMNCI training days from 11 to 6 days.” Furthermore it was shared that the WHO has abridged and updated the in service IMNCI training manual and soon the pre-service and community components will be updated as well. Furthermore, it was revealed that the Sindh has already started preparing for the trainings of community Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 61 workers on the use of use Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT, Low Osmolarity ORS and ARI Timer. These trainings will be of