reducing mortality and morbidity due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea • Sindh has evidence based medicine cost estimation while Punjab has no such procedure • Sindh has already included the Amoxicillin and Zinc in the EML with the word “preferred” • Essential Medicine Lists at the Federal and Punjab level contain Amoxicillin and Zinc in the “Solid Oral Dosage Form” • USAID USP-PQM is already working to promote the quality of medicines in Pakistan • Validity and reliability of data gathered from district and received at the highest point is questionable, data is not analyzed at the district level • Sindh and Punjab have already started the process of updating the DHIS and LHW MIS • CM-SMU serves as a great opportunity for monitoring of key areas of health in Punjab. • Need for a dedicated focal person for Pneumonia and Diarrhea in the office of DGHS Sindh for monitoring purposes 4.2 MANAGEMENT OF PNEUMONIA & DIARRHEA This section is based on qualitative data analysis of responses from various stakeholders who are involved in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. It aims to explore the prescribing behaviors, capacity of service providers, availability of medicines and relevant medical equipment, healthcare seeking preferences and general areas of concern for each of the stakeholders. Responses of stakeholders were synthesized into coherent themes and sub-themes and ultimately organized into formal research findings. General practitioners (GPs) and pharmacy in-charges were interviewed in private sector. From public sector, at facility level, facility in-charges were interviewed and focus group discussions were conducted with lady health workers (LHWs) while at community level, parents /caregivers of sick children were interviewed. The sample focused on five districts from both Punjab and Sindh; two from Punjab (Pakpattan and Bahawalnagar) and three from Sindh (Tharparker, Shikarpur and Tando Muhammad Khan). 43 4.2.1 Perceptions of Facility In-charges Diarrhea and Pneumonia were reported as the most common diseases by all the facility in-charges who were interviewed. Pneumonia cases were significantly fewer as it is a seasonal disease and the survey was conducted during the warm season. Many responses highlighted other health concerns that seemed to be widespread in their catchment areas, which included skin allergies, malaria, respiratory tract infections and dysentery. A facility in-charge in Punjab explained that “…almost 50% children suffering from upper respiratory tract infections, 15% suffering from skin allergies and 20% are suffering from Diarrhea, (they) are brought to this facility. The cases