the age of 5 years. Among this age group, 7,072,644 suffer from diarrhea and 4,920,100 have ARI each year. GAPPD (2013) recommends use of low osmolarity ORS and zinc for the treatment of diarrhea and appropriate antimicrobial (e.g. Amoxicillin) for the treatment of Pneumonia to reduce Under 5 morbidity and mortality. Dispersible tablets (DT) of amoxicillin and zinc and low osmolarity ORS is the current treatment of choice recommended by the WHO for children. The GAPPD also recommends to co-packaged ORS with Zinc. Lower osmolarity formulation for oral rehydration salts (ORS) reduces the need for parenteral therapy and shortens duration of diarrheal episode; while addition of zinc Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 126 supplementation in the treatment regimen for 10–14 days is said to further decrease the duration and severity of disease and risk of subsequent infections in 2–3 months after treatment. Global experience suggests that low osmolarity ORS and zinc are less expensive, safe and easy to dispense and significantly lower morbidity and mortality relating to diarrhea. Locally produced zinc products, that meet the cGMP standards for international procurement, are now increasingly becoming available in Pakistan and the original ORS formulation is switching to low osmolarity ORS. It is found that this product is more efficacious and 17% cheaper because it requires less salt and glucose and therefore less packaging. Dispersible tablet (DT) is now a preferred formulation for Zinc and Amoxicillin than suspension, for having more rapid and high absorption from pregastric parts of GIT enhancing bioavailability and efficacy, ease of preparation, reliability of dosing, not needing refrigeration and relatively longer shelf life. Pharmaceutical Market and Regulation Pakistan has a very vibrant and progressive pharma industry, comprising of about 660 local pharmaceutical manufacturing units, meeting international cGMP standards and registered with Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP). It also includes 25 multinational pharmaceutical companies. The total size of pharma industry may be around 800 if those in the process of being registered and passing through the scrutiny processes of Quality Control Section of DRAP are also included. Pakistan pharmaceutical Industry meets around 70 percent of country’s demand of finished medicines. In terms of share market, the domestic pharma market is almost equally divided between the Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 127 nationals and the multinational companies. During the past decade, national pharmaceutical industry has shown a progressive growth and has invested substantially in upgrading itself. Currently the industry