The review of the stock registers, daily expense register, bin cards, medicines requisition records, were always reviewed. f. discuss budgeting for logistics activities? It was reported that the discussion on budgets was more among the provincial and district level staff. g. review changes made since last supervisory visit? Anything which was under the control of health facility staff and supervisor, if it is considered as a negligence or the area for improvement; then these areas were shared and discussed in next visit. The supervisory visits at the health facilities, under the supervision of PPP were more frequent, so the impact of any observation made during the previous visit, helps to bring more chances towards improvement of the processes. h. on-the-job training to improve job performance? Anything that can be explained or demonstrated within the limited time was discussed in the visits. i. discuss what is working and what is not working? During the supervisory visits of the public health facilities, anything not working well was reported. However, if the issue was from the departmental side, empathic behavior was adopted. The issues, like, storage conditions etc. were discussed with higher officials during high level meeting. j. discuss what help is needed (staff, equipment, forms, etc.)? Any help, like, requirement of the stock register, daily expense register, bin cards were immediately resolved. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 124 indicators LSAT Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs 16 Is there a documented schedule for supervision? 1 In PPP, there were schedules, while in public sector of Sindh and Punjab, there were no schedules for health facilities. If no, skip to question 21. 17 a. Are supervisory visits conducted according to the established schedule? If not, why not? b. How often do they take place? In PPP, the supervisory visits were conducted according to their schedules. The other scheduled visits were also reported, if required. 18 Are there any constraints to conducting supervisory visits? In Sindh and Punjab, the major constrain of conduction the supervisory visits is the limitations of HR, availability of vehicle and POL. 19 If a staff member’s performance in logistics is not satisfactory, is the person provided with trainings? The public sector, it was observed that the components of capacity building was not scientifically