was limited to availability of new/revised commodities and their prescription to children in the surveyed health facilities. Qualitative data was collected through key informant interviews and focus group discussions with the relevant stakeholders while quantitative data was gathered through facility checklists and prescription review from the surveyed health facilities. Both purposive and random sampling techniques were utilized respectively for sample selection. At the level of selection of districts, purposive sampling was done to cater the geographic, demographic and socio-economic factors in the districts selection. Within districts, health facilities were randomly selected. This approach proved useful in covering the vast variations across the districts of the same province and providing certain degree of randomness in selection of health facilities. This approach was finalized after consultation with members of MTE reference group during inception phase through individual meetings and inception workshop. 3.2.1 Geographical Scope The geographical scope of this project included the 5 districts of Punjab and all the 29 districts of Sindh, where the Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project was being implemented. Figure 3: Selected Districts for Midterm Evaluation Pakpattan Bhawalnagar Therparkar Karachi Malir Karachi West Muzaffargarh Sujawal Dadu Jacobabad Shaheed Benazirabad Khairpur Ghotki Midterm Evaluation Report 26 For sample selection of districts in Sindh, a divisional approach was adopted so that representation was uniform from within all 29 districts of Sindh. 7 districts were purposively selected from 6 divisions of Sindh while 2 districts from within 6 districts of Karachi were included. In total 9 districts of Sindh and 3 districts of Punjab (out of the five intervention district while catering to the geographical coverage of the project) were selected for the evaluation ensuring representation of all. Table 1: Project Implementation and Selection of Districts PUNJAB Total interventio n districts 05 (Bahawalnagar, Muzaffargarh, Rahim Yar Khan, Pakpattan, D G Khan) Selected districts Pakpattan Muzaffargarh Bahawalnagar SINDH Total interventio n districts 29 (entire province) Selected districts Karachi West Malir S. Benazirabad Ghotki Dadu Khairpur Jacobabad Tharparkar Sujawal Selection of districts in Sindh covered geographical, human development, and topographical variations. The following table shows the selected districts. Table 2: District Selection in Sindh – HDI and Geographical Variations District HDI Value Selected Districts Divisions of Selected Districts Karachi (all 06) 0.789 Karachi West Karachi Division Malir Ghotki 0.71 to 0.68 S. Benazirabad S. Benazirabad Division S. Benazirabad Sukkur TA Yar TM Khan Ghotki Sukkur Division Matiari Jamshoro Hyderabad 0.679 to 0.62 Dadu Hyderabad