well as rates for estimating indoor air quality, fuel efficiency and safety, and are being backed up by investment in regional testing centres. Monitoring and evaluation strategy WHO is working with the World Bank and other SEFA partners to develop a multi-tiered monitoring framework. This will serve as a basis for setting targets and monitoring progress in access to modern energy for households and community services, pollutant emission levels and electricity supply. The proposed framework will be tested and refined, including the development of survey questions for DHS, MICS, etc., with a view to implementation within two to three years. Source: SEFA http://www.sustainableenergyforall.org/ ; http://www.sustainableenergyforall.org/tracking-progress 25 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) Box 10. Integrating interventions for household water and air quality in Rwanda About two fifths of the world’s population still relies on solid fuels for their everyday cooking and heating needs, most of which is biomass (wood, crop wastes and animal dung). The great majority of these households are in developing countries, and reliance on solid fuels is closely linked to poverty. The use of biomass for cooking and water treatment (by boilling) in simple, poorly-vented stoves leads to high levels of harmful indoor air emissions, contributes to deforestation in some settings, and imposes an unnecessary burden on the public health and economic development of the vulnerable populations of these countries. WHO has recently begun working with the Government of Rwanda and a range of stakeholders to address this issue. A key partner is DelAgua Health & Development Programs, which plan to distribute point-of-use water treatment as well as more efficient cookstoves to approximately 3 million residents, covering all 30 districts of Rwanda and targeting the poorest 30% of the country. Households that fall into these categories are defined on a village level by the communities themselves. They are often characterized as lacking land, their own home or possessions. These households already receive direct assistance from community and national government activities, including health insurance. The DelAgua Health Rwanda programme will provide water filters and new biomass cookstoves to these households as part of a public health campaign. The project is being carried out in partnership with the Rwanda MoH and the Environmental Management Authority, and is being developed by Manna Energy Limited, a social enterprise that pioneered carbon financed water treatment in Rwanda. The technology distributions will include a