(CM-SMU) has been tasked with the accountability related to the prioritized areas of intervention in the Punjab. This monitoring system has arguably created a huge sense of accountability within the health sector management of the province, in which diseases like Pneumonia and Diarrhea needs to be highlighted to bring the much needed priority and focus. 108 THE POLITICS In order to facilitate the policy translation and change process, there is a felt need for generating sustained political will and commitment within the current and future governments to ensure availability of essential commodities for improving management of childhood Diarrhea and Pneumonia and increasing child survival in Pakistan. On the basis of identified barriers and facilitators to policy translation, following are the proposed outcomes to reduce the number of child deaths due to the Pneumonia and diarrhoea: 1. Existing national and provincial policies and guidelines are updated in line with the global recommendations (WHO/GAPPD) for management of diarrhoea and Pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan by 2019. 2. Revised and updated Pneumonia and diarrhoea treatment guidelines are translated into relevant action plans by all provincial/areas health departments in Pakistan by the end of 2019 3. Essential commodities (Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, Co-packaged ORS and Zinc, oxygen, ARI timers, and pulse oximeters) are available for treatment of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhoea in Pakistan by the end of 2019. The successful acceptance of conclusions drawn from policy analysis and recommendations made under theory of change and accountability framework, requires that the role of each influencer and stakeholder is recognized, and intervention/strategy to mitigate the barriers at each level should be identified. Translation of this knowledge into sustained result-oriented political commitment, increased allocation of resources, and continuous monitoring of progress is crucial. Four key stakeholder audiences that need to be tapped are listed below: 1) Politicians & Policy Makers: At this level, linkages need to be drawn between lives lost due to silent killing diseases like Pneumonia and Diarrhea and their effect on infant mortality and morbidity. Without the highest government involvement, dissemination of knowledge, prioritization and increased focus on these diseases may not be possible. The government’s active participation is also needed to coordinate child survival policy with health, and education policies, easing the rollout of effective management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. 2) Local Managers & Service Providers: Advocacy at this tier ensures renewed emphasis on the importance of adopting revised and updated