on the enabling environment (e.g. structures, hardware and commodities necessary to facilitate the desired behaviours). This process enables identification of appropriate interventions that can be scaled up immediately, versus those that will take longer or may need additional support to be put in place. Most of the information needed for such a situation analysis is likely already available in regional and national child survival strategies and plans. Other documents describing interventions (e.g. country immunization plans, WASH documents, etc.) should also contain this information. The information may simply need to be updated, compiled and acted upon. If such data are not available, a national working group should gather the necessary additional information. Countries that have already participated in this process can use this opportunity to review and update their work. 21 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) • Prioritize/implement a package of interventions cross-linked to current maternal and child health plans Policy-makers and planners should use the situation analysis to develop and implement a package of interventions that address key protective, preventive and treatment factors. This includes making decisions regarding the introduction of relevant new vaccines based on the burden of disease and the key groups affected. Countries will need to assess which interventions should receive special focus, and what policy changes might be required to accelerate progress. They will also need to decide which geographic or population groups should receive particular attention in order to enhance equity. Once these decisions are made, they will have to communicate these to the various programmes, sectors and levels to ensure that resources are appropriately allocated. • Develop/update a costed multi-year plan for accelerated action Many countries already have an action plan that includes diarrhoea and pneumonia. For example, many of the country representatives who attended the country or regional workshops developed or updated their action plans at that time (see Annex 3 for a summary of the process). These plans should now be reviewed and updated, ensuring that costs are estimated and national and subnational progress milestones are set. Milestones and costing should be set for multi-year, in addition to annual programming. Costed national health plans should emphasize service integration across programmes for reproductive, maternal, neonatal and child health. They should also include environmental interventions with a focus on pneumonia and diarrhoea control. Plans made by other relevant interventional programmes should be consulted to