and World health Organization tossed the Integrated Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD), suggesting a consistent methodology to address mortality rate due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea. GAPPD provides an opportunity for the global community to address these leading causes of child deaths in an integrated and coordinated fashion. By understanding the landscape of global child health initiatives and how they support and relate to the GAPPD, global donors and policymakers, alongside advocates and national decisionmakers, can maximize their investments and help ensure every child has the opportunity to secure a prosperous future (WHO/UNICEF, 2013). The use of ORS was successfully promoted in the era of mid 1980s; the use of ORS gained popularity in reducing Diarrhea related deaths in more than 100 states across the globe. Midterm Evaluation Report 19 Apex management of UNICEF made substantial efforts to attract political will and support for its usage in Diarrhea related illnesses. Systematic reviews revealed the significance of ORS in reducing Diarrhea related mortality rates to a 93 (percent) (Munos, Walker & Black, 2010). Despite this, the use of ORS came to a downturn in the mid-2000s due to several reasons, among which the major reason is lack of awareness and practices. For treatment of Pneumonia among children, Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI) programmes were initiated during 1990s, based on evidence from research studies focusing on childhood Pneumonia assessment and treatment with antibiotics in community settings. However, compared with the early years of Control of Diarrheal Diseases (CDD) programmes or immunization programmes, they were slower to be adopted or scaled up to a large extent. GAVI funded the Pneumonia DIP and the HiB Initiative aimed at country adoption of the new vaccines. This combined effort provided new, strong momentum for Pneumonia and helped reactivate the network of Pneumonia proponents (Berlan, 2015). At the global level, increased advocacy for policy and resources by more formal groups such as the Global Coalition against Child Pneumonia were seen (Taylor, Schumacher & Davis, 2016). . In 2011, the Diarrhea Pneumonia Working Group (DPWG) accumulated efforts for both disease conditions and supports the expansion of programmes in 10 high-burden countries (Taylor, Schumacher & Davis, 2016). UNICEF and WHO tossed the Integrated Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD), suggesting a consistent methodology to address mortality rate due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea. GAPPD provides an opportunity for the global community to address these leading causes of