to conduct comparative studies locally, as there is also apprehension whether low osmolarity ORS should actually be recommended for children residing in Pakistan, where in extreme hot weather and intense sweating more electrolytes are liable to be lost compared to any western country. Current Market Trends Pattern of prescriptions reaching at private pharmacies from healthcare providers including General Practitioners (GPs) and Specialists was studied in selected districts of Sindh and Punjab. It was seen that although these pharmacies mostly catered to Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 134 prescriptions of private practitioners, prescriptions from public sector facilities were also not so uncommon. On average 10-15% prescriptions reportedly emerged from public sector facilities (e.g. BHUs and RHCs), but the demand reached up to fifty percent in one of study district of Punjab. A good percentage of such prescriptions albeit were for intravenous injections and fluids. When stock out position of pneumonia and diarrhea commodities was discussed with facility in-charges, most claimed not suffering from any stock outs. They, however admitted at the same time, ‘We never received quantity as per demand and had to resort to local purchase (LP) during disease outbreak season.’ For the treatment of Acute Respiratory Infections/pneumonia, quinolones were the most commonly prescribed antimicrobial, followed by 3rd generation cephalosporin, Amoxicillin, Co Amoxiclav, Cotrimoxizole and 1st generation cephalosporin. For the treatment of diarrhea, ORS and metronidazole were most commonly prescribed drugs. Majority of prescriptions, by specialists and GPs alike, contained Zinc suspension in Sindh, but in Punjab while specialists’ prescriptions often contained zinc, most GPs did not recommend it. A definite association was observed between the visits of medical representatives, provision of incentives and prescription trend of most care providers, particularly in the private sector. Most pharmacies visited by the survey teams had stock of Amoxicillin and Zinc in syrup form, but did not keep dispersible formulations of either Amoxicillin or Zinc in their stock for lack of such demand by the healthcare providers. This was further verified, when prescriptions issued to the clients by care providers at the health facilities were reviewed. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 135 In the opinion of most pharmacy in-charges, people tend to accept whatever formulation (whether syrup or DT) was prescribed by his/her physician as long as medicine remained within affordable range. The same view was also endorsed by majority of clients interviewed; one of whom said, “I provide my children whatever my