Additionally, flash cards and storybooks depicting management of diarrhea with Zinc and ORS were developed, pretested, revised, and printed under the supervision of the MoPH health promotion department (USAID, 2016). Further measures included revision of training modules for management of diarrhea with Zinc and ORS, development of Zinc and ORS cobranding communication strategy to align with the MoPH health promotion strategy and the development of implementation plans by each province. Four zonal consultative workshops were also held for the implementation of the Zinc and ORS project for over 120 provincial health officers from all the provinces. For distribution of ORS and Zinc co-pack and educational materials, UNICEF coordinated with the Afghan Social Marketing Organization (ASMO) (USAID, 2016). Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 28 Zinc Prescription and Administration in Mali As part of the small-scale pilot phase of a multi-center study examining the operational impacts of zinc introduction in multiple countries, zinc was provided to children suffering from diarrhea in the Bougouni district in Mali. The project trained health center staff and CHWs in diarrhea case management with zinc and ORS and counseled parents on child feeding and diarrhea prevention and treatment. Patients were provided 14 count blister packs with attached pictorials and labels detailing use and dosage. Interviewers conducted follow up interviews with all children prescribed the medicine and examined timing and management of the zinc administered, purchasing patterns and problems in administering the tablets as well as any adverse side effects. To document reactions and patterns, semi qualitative interviews were conducted with 37 caretakers, 18 CHWs and 2 health facility nurses. Consent was taken in each participating village from the village elders (Winch et al, 2006). Community response to the tablets proved to be very favorable; parents appreciated the clean and comprehensive packaging and most were very happy with the results, particularly the regaining of the child appetite and return to normality (Winch et al, 2006). MoHP / USAID: The POUZN Project in Nepal for Zinc Scale-up through private sector In 2005, answering the Ministry of Health and Population’s call for financial and technical assistance to support integration of zinc into the government’s diarrhea management program, USAID, in collaboration with UNICEF, provided commodities, Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 29 training and technical assistance to help strengthen the skills of the public sector. Additionally, USAID also funded a project with similar aims, implemented by the Abt Associates in partnership with