medicines and other health system resources should be applied. It has mentioned that the determinants of access to medicines are in national, regional and international contexts. [18] The objectives of the consultancy will cover the aspects of National, Provincial, District and Sub-district levels of medicines supply chain management. The indicators used for the monitoring covers the interconnections of the SCMS. The irrational or non-scientific forecasting and quantification of essential medicines leads to loss of medicines by over stocking or expiry or on other hand causes the stock out. This situation has described by the study conducted in 2014 in Tanzania. It stated that the integrated logistic system was not adequately addressed accountability concerns under the “push” or kit system. The weaknesses of the quantification have led the frequent stock out of antimalarial medicines and ORS. The study proposed the regular reconciliation between the health information system and the medicines delivery system which not only improve the availability of essential medicines but also guide for the interventions for further improvement of access of essential medicines .[19] Most common method of medicines forecasting is consumption based which is also used public health facilities of Pakistan. To improve the access of medicines the consumption based methodology should be applied with its all technical aspects. Technical Resource Facility plus (TRF+) has conducted the developed the user friendly tool for medicines forecasting and quantification and training for 36 districts of Punjab has been conducted in which DDO, Pharmacist and computer operators were trained. Later Primary and Secondary Health Care Department of Government of Punjab has introduces its computerized logistic management information system and claim that system has ability to forecast medicines. In-depth situation analysis is required to see the efficiency of the forecasting and quantification. The supplies of essential medicines under the supervision of pharmacist have shown better results. The access of medicines has been improved at rural hospitals of Australia. [20] According to “Bureau of Statics of Pakistan” about 22% population of Pakistan use Public health facilities to get health services. The high competencies of the services provided and the availability of essential medicines at health facilities played an important role in the utilization of health services and the as well as to promote the better clinical outcomes. [21] The SDG 3 presented by UN emphasizes the need of access of quality treatment within the affordable cost. The price of medicines is one of