estimates – These are based on population-weighted averages, weighted by the total number of children under ﬁve years of age. These estimates are presented only if available data cover at least 50 per cent of total children under ﬁve years of age in regional or global groupings. The list of countries included in these groupings is available at www.childinfo.org. Trends over time – Changes in treatment indicator deﬁnitions over the years have resulted in a relative Data used in this report 39 lack of comparable data from the 1990s in order to assess trends over time. To the extent possible, data collected through previous surveys have been reanalysed for the purposes of this report to conform to the current indicator deﬁnition (ORT with continued feeding) to monitor treatment coverage. For each of the treatment indicators, regional assessments of trends over time were conducted on the basis of a subset of countries with two or more comparable data points around the time periods 2000 and 2007. A linear regression line was then ﬁtted through all available data points for each country included in the assessment to derive an estimate for the earlier (2000) and later time periods (2007). A regional estimate was then presented in this report if the subset of countries included in the trend analyses represented at least 50 per cent of the total children under ﬁve in the regional or global grouping. Interpreting treatment coverage data from household surveys The interpretation of treatment coverage must take into account a number of important issues: First, the indicator to monitor current treatment guidelines (ORT with continued feeding) reﬂects the multiple components of this recommendation (with the exception of zinc). As mentioned previously, this indicator deﬁnition was developed and agreed upon by leading experts at a UNICEF and WHO meeting in 2004, and was recently re-conﬁrmed during a Countdown to 2015 technical meeting in 2007.47 It is important to evaluate the contribution of each individual component of the indicator to the overall coverage value, and this assessment was presented in this report. Second, for some countries, comparisons of treatment coverage based on the current indicator deﬁnition with previously used indicators may result in markedly diﬀerent values. There may 40 Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done their response categories. Here again, it is important to note that survey questionnaires are translated into diﬀerent languages, which may also