Timer will soon be initiated under accelerated action plan (AAP). It was found out that UNICEF has already pledged to support these. Furthermore, it was found out that in Sindh province, PPA is playing a very proactive role in engaging the private sector and raising awareness about the topics relevant to child health through media campaigns, seminars and health education sessions. Furthermore, it was shared that the PPA is building capacity of its members on the topics like management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children. Managers from Punjab noted that there has been no training conducted on IMNCI for last two years. However, it was shared that IRMNCH program has started trainings for emergency management of Pneumonia and 39 Diarrhea at 24/7 BHUs. In this regard, a training manual had been prepared for healthcare providers. However, the importance of the continuous refresher trainings was highlighted by the managers in both provinces. A leading paediatrician stressed the need of pre-service trainings for effective management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Furthermore, it was stressed by the experts at all levels that there is a strong need for emphasis in medical school training as well. 4.1.7 Policy Environment related to LHWs Managers from both the provinces agreed on the role and scope of services of community workers. Their role was defined to be early diagnosis, initial management and referral of the cases. Managers stressed the need of hiring more LHWs for the coverage of uncovered areas. One prominent paediatrician noted: “Role of community health workers is very critical in early detection, management and referral of cases. Similarly, if complicated cases were referred by BHU to the higher level in timely manner, then it would be of huge significance.” Due to their door-to-door services, LHWs have a very critical role in reducing the rate of mortality and morbidity caused due to childhood diseases. As per mandate of the program, the respondents were confident that LHWs can act as a catalyst in reducing mortality and morbidity through addressing all three components of GAPPD i.e. treat, prevent and promote. As said by a District Manager of program, “LHWs are playing multiple roles at one time which comprises prevention, first aid treatment and follow up. They give awareness to the mothers of children about hand wash, sanitation etc. LHWs role is also very critical in vaccination.” It was reported that LHWs have been using Amoxicillin, Paracetamole, Zinc Sulphate