to increasing literacy and awareness, there seemed to be no households solely relying on home remedies. A parent from Sindh asserted, “Most of the poor people try home remedies at first. Later on they visit the hospital. I came here as the doctor conducts the check up very well.” Many parents also stated that they forego home remedies entirely, opting to go straight to the hospital, as this parent stated, “We just visit the doctor instead of trying home remedies.” Spiritual Healing – Spiritual healing was also one of the acceptable means of treatment for some. Quite a few parents mentioned that they utilized spiritual treatment, Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 118 nonetheless majority preferred hospitals and other health facilities. There were also some cases where respondents used both options simultaneously, often as a bridge between modern medication and deep-rooted cultural and religious sentiments. A parent from Punjab claimed, “It is a common practice to go to the doctor as well as the spiritual healer. If the child doesn’t get well, we will go to a spiritual healer.” Another parent from Punjab reiterated, “The community’s preferred treatment is to take them to health facilities but sometimes we also use spiritual treatment to increase the effectiveness of medicines. They say that they see this as beneficial and effective.” Hakeem Treatment (Tibb) – Very few parents mentioned that treatment by Hakeem was one of the forms of treatment they used. Much of this is owed to traditional values as can be seen from the response of this parent from Punjab; “We visit Hakeem at first and then visit the hospital because of our elder’s advice. Our elders prefer Hakeem.” Factors Effecting Health Facilities Visits There were many factors that affected the health facility visits of parents with sick children. However, parents had different priorities for choosing a healthcare center. In one case a factor took precedence for a parent while in another, it was not even a consideration. For example location of a facility was important for certain parents whereas getting personal attention from the doctor was a priority for others. Nevertheless, every factor played a certain role in the parents decision-making process. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 119 Free Treatment/Medicines – Free treatment and medicines played a significant role in drawing patients to government health facilities. Cheaper and more cost effective services were one of the reasons. A parent from Sindh