the public through TV and Print Media. They should be informed about the availability of free of cost high quality medicines at public health facilities. Sindh government, has focused on improving the supplies of medicines and they had planned to establish one warehouse in each division to ensure continuous supplies. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 74 Indicators Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan Khyber Pakhtunkhwa FATA In Baluchistan, the procurement of quality medicines has been focused. This goal was achieved by infiltration of spurious drugs. The process was strictly monitored; and information of arresting the culprits has been shared in the papers, to build the confidence of public. The efforts to put more medicines in the supply system at provincial level are as follows Punjab: The primary and secondary healthcare process, a high quality medicines procurement was major focus. The budgetary gap created, due to varied prices of previous manufacturers and currently manufacturers was filled. The temperature controlling system of the warehouses was upgraded, although, a lot of work is still required to maintain the standard. The supply process of IRMNCH & NP has improved. The morbidity of the hospitals were considered. The allocation of the budget for medicines procurement is accurately provisioned. DHQ & THQs, however, were still not satisfied with the distribution of the budgets. Improvement is observed in LMIS, prescription management information system, introduced by Health Information and Service Delivery Unit (HISDU) though computerized software in specialized healthcare department. KP: The medicines forecasting and quantification was focused, and the strengthening of supply chain management system was done through the staffing of logistics. Baluchistan: In order to ensure the procurement of quality medicine, government of Baluchistan, has procured the medicines centrally. These medicines, were later supplied to PPHI. FATA: as per the information shared, that, FATA agencies need strengthening and capacity building in terms of access to medicines. The department has requested UNICEF, to extend its services in FATA, in terms of provisioning of medicines and capacity building SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 75 1.2 Section II: Product Selection Indicators LSAT Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs 1 a. Is there an essential services package? 1 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y