transition for the Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 52 interventions in the finance and the planning and development departments of the government”. A provincial manager in the Sindh Health department stressed the need of a robust office of the Director General Health Services in these words: “The post of Director MCH of G-20 in the DG office needs to be strengthened by provision of necessary staff and equipment to effectively oversee and control all maternal and child health related activities in the province through respective programs. At present, it is an isolated post without any HR support. On the other side, there was no child health strategy in the government of Punjab. Furthermore, it was revealed that that both Punjab and Sindh have created District Action Plans and District Operational Plans addressing the child health services which also included management of pneumonia and diarrhea. It was found out that last year all the districts in Sindh have prepared their second medium term District Action Plans with the support from the USAIDs Health Systems Strengthening Project. It was revealed by most of the managers interviewed in Sindh that as a part of the planning process, they placed Pneumonia and Diarrhea among the top priorities of the district. Subsequently, the districts planned activities and interventions for these commodities. Mostly, these activities comprised of outreach activities and trainings for the healthcare providers. However, at the same time these managers expressed their helplessness because pneumonia and diarrhea being silent killers were not creating the political will and commitment required to tackle these diseases at a massive level. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 53 One overarching theme that was found out was that the managers at the provincial level were strongly of the opinion that the severity and incidence of pneumonia and diarrhea needs to be highlighted at the highest level possible. It was suggested that the national health vision and policy and provincial strategies must put an emphatic focus on child health with special reference to pneumonia and diarrhea. Managers strongly suggested the introduction of the interventions related to pneumonia and diarrhea in the strategic and operational plans of the Federal and Provincial governments. Child Survival Group The Child Survival Group in Punjab has conducted six quarterly meetings so far. The Child Survival group created its own core group that would meet fortnightly to check the progress of the implementation of the project and