studies have shown that handwashing with soap can reduce the incidence of diarrhoeal disease by over 40 per cent.20 Accessible and plentiful water has also been shown to encourage better hygiene, handwashing in particular, although the extent to which access to improved water sources reduces diarrhoea rates often depends on the type of water source available (such as public taps or standpipes, protected dug wells or boreholes).21 Interventions to improve water quality at the source, along with treatment of household water and safe storage systems, have been shown to reduce diarrhoea incidence by as much as 47 per cent.22 Proven and ﬁeld-tested household water treatment options that are currently being promoted include chlorination, ﬁltration, combined ﬂocculation and disinfection, boiling, and solar disinfection. Household water treatment could potentially be scaled up quickly and inexpensively in both development and emergency situations. It has even become common practice in large cities where homes are connected to a municipal water supply, since water is often polluted between the source and the point of use. Until recently, national governments and their development partners promoted the use of improved sanitation facilities primarily by constructing toilets. Today, a fundamentally new approach has been adopted – one that relies on the demand of a community to stop open defecation, which has proven far more effective. Stimulating collective action to stop open defecation is now relying on behavioural triggers related to status, pride, shame and disgust, rather than relying solely on health-related arguments. Another feature of this approach is the absence of household subsidies to prompt latrine construction. Instead, a community’s desire for change tends to propel them into action and encourages innovation, mutual support and appropriate local solutions, thus leading to greater ownership and sustainability. In some instances, a large number of private entrepreneurs have emerged from nearby villages to match the demand for low-cost latrine parts.18 By generating demand in this way, complete districts, such as in Bangladesh and Zambia, have become ‘open-defecation-free’. Large international development agencies such as UNICEF and the World Bank Water and Sanitation Programme are now promoting similar sanitation approaches in other areas. Source: Kar, K., ‘Subsidy or Self-Respect? Participatory total community sanitation in Bangladesh’, IDS Working Paper 184, Institute of Development Studies, Brighton, UK, 2003. Washing one’s hands with soap can reduce rates of diarrhoeal disease when carried out at critical moments: after using the toilet, after cleaning a child’s bottom and