good quality of medicine as Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 97 compared to GPs who prescribe normal or third class medicine.” A pharmacist wanted to sound politically correct as he asserted his view, “There is difference of quality of medicine prescribed by specialists and GPs. It is not my scope to pass judgment on such topic/subject.” There was also a popular belief that GPs prescribed a greater number of medicines to satisfy their financial goals. A GP from Sindh was of the view that, “… the main difference between Specialists and GPs is that GPs prescribe more and expensive medicines however specialists prescribe cheap and lesser quantity of medicine.” Long Term vs. Short Term Treatment – It can be inferred that pharmacy incharges assumed that GPs provided temporary relief while specialists actually able to diagnose and cure the illness. A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh elaborated, “Specialists prescribe medicine to address the cause; however, the GPs prescribe medicines for the relief of pain and fever and the problem still persists.” Placing Purchase Orders Pharmacy in-charges quite frequently stated that they arranged for new as well as existing medicines in demand, in case they went out of stock. According to their view, placing orders for medicines were dependent upon various factors including: • Demand • Price • Quality/ Brand • Side effects Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 98 • Season A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab encapsulated most of these determinants in his response; “When any new medicine is launched by pharmaceutical companies, we are provided with samples of such medicine by medical reps. During its testing period if such specific product is in demand and doesn’t have any side effects and is not very expensive, then, we place new orders for such new medicine. We don't place orders of new medicine from merely profit point of view.” A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh emphasized the demand factor and also explained that they were able to assess it well, “We focus on running items. We see the demand of doctors and prescribed medicines to place order for new medicines and assess if we need to change the order. It has never happened that we have stocked new medicines and the sale for that item remains zero.” A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh analyzed the brand and price dynamics in the following words: “We routinely consider placing order for any new drug. If quality of medicine