been able to update national and provincial policies and guidelines in line with GAPPD recommendations. Revision of IMNCI Guidelines – UNICEF, has successfully provided technical assistance to draft and endorse the revised community IMNCI training manuals on child survival from the Technical Working Groups and Government. Policymakers and professionals have concurred with the in-service IMNCI training manuals, which have been endorsed by the government. UNICEF, to help draft and endorse the pre-service and community IMNCI components by the WHO/Eastern Mediterranean Regional Office (EMRO) team, provided technical assistance. UNICEF successfully carried out a series of comprehensive consultative process with the government officials, key stakeholders and development partners to help draft the IMNCI modules, which are currently under review. Health managers from both Sindh and Punjab informed about the success of IMNCI trainings being carried out in health facilities. A health manager from Sindh reported, “We have over 300 Basic Health Units in which staff is receiving trainings on IMNCI/WHO guidelines. A Child Survival Group member from Sindh, commented about the Revised IMNCI trainings, “…these trainings highlight the importance of usage of Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT and L-ORS in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea.” Procurement of quality assured commodities for Pneumonia and Diarrhea in selected provinces According to District managers in Punjab and Sindh, procurement of medicines at the district level is being carried out through a central rate contract list, which is awarded at the provincial levels by the health departments. UNICEF continues the procurement of quality assured commodities offshore for Pneumonia and Diarrhea till end of the year, 2019. Advocacy with the government for adequate budgetary allocation to help ensure availability of these commodities at Public health facilities beyond the scope of project is being carried out. Districts health Information System – Keeping in view, the role of Management Information system in combating mortality and morbidity due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea, UNICEF, provided technical assistance to Department of Health for updating of DHIS software and tools, and its planned linkages with LMIS. A series of consultative meetings of the CSW and TWG at national and provincial levels were conducted to build consensus on strengthening the logistics system with updated EMLs, MSDP and procurement lists. A digital logistic management information system (LMIS) software, which is linked with district health information system (DHIS), is being developed. KII’s were conducted with DHIS focal person of Sindh and Punjab. DHIS focal persons in Sindh