zinc into the government’s diarrhea management program, USAID, in collaboration with UNICEF, provided commodities, Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 29 training and technical assistance to help strengthen the skills of the public sector. Additionally, USAID also funded a project with similar aims, implemented by the Abt Associates in partnership with Population Services International. This project, the Social Marketing for Diarrheal Disease Control Plus: Point-of-Use Water Disinfection and Zinc Treatment (POUZN) Project, aimed to introduce pediatric zinc as the standard treatment for diarrhea, through the private sector (Wang, Wenjuan & Vicki MacDonald, 2009). The project was implemented in 2 phases, the first beginning in December 2006 and running till September 2007, and the second spanning 6 months from AprilSeptember 2008. Phase I focused specifically on 3 districts in the Kathmandu valley. The project procured product for the public sector, trained staff from both the private and public sectors and also supported behavior change communications for both. The POUZN team also worked closely with the Child Health Division throughout to implement activities and also monitor them (Wang, Wenjuan & Vicki MacDonald, 2009). Phase II worked on extending the private sector program to an additional 27 public sector IMCI focus districts. MoHP took the lead in organizing trainings and ensuring product supply and POUZN worked on training the private sector (Wang, Wenjuan & Vicki MacDonald, 2009). At the end of the project neither the public nor the private sectors had any zinc products to offer to the market so zinc tablets manufactured by the French company Nutriset were chosen for zinc treatment programs. In 2007, 3 major manufacturers Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 30 were given the task of producing the zinc tablets that would eventually replace the imported item. By august 2008, it was found that the zinc tablets were available in 75% of all target districts and a survey revealed that due to easy access, use of the tablets was steadily growing among patient. A mass media campaign also proved to be largely helpful when it came to raising awareness levels among the local community (Wang, Wenjuan & Vicki MacDonald, 2009). Over the 3 year period from 2005 to 2008 zinc usage increased from 0.4% to 15.4% as a result of the efforts of the POUZN Project (Wang, Wenjuan & Vicki MacDonald, 2009). Amoxicillin Dispersible Tablets WHO recommends a 250mg amoxicillin DT, to be taken twice daily for 3-5 days. This