He also asked to visit for routine checkup. In case of any emergency, I may visit the doctor prior to given time.” On the contrary, it was observed that many doctors weren’t that thorough and almost dismissive at times, failing to elaborate on patients’ symptoms and sending them off with unexplained prescriptions and intravenous transfusions. Such parents sought services elsewhere. A parent from Sindh complained, “Doctor didn't Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 123 tell me anything, he just asked me to take the prescription and get the medicine.” Dissatisfied parents displayed eagerness to go to a higher health facility. Most of the parents were pleased with the services they received there and seemed to trust the staff and doctors. A parent from Punjab said, “Doctor informed me that after using his prescribed medicine we should revisit this center but we will not revisit. We will go to DHQ or other better medical facility for availing better treatment. This doctor did not tell us the dangers and symptoms of the disease.” This resonated with a parent from Sindh, “They didn't tell us what to do in case the child’s condition become critical. In that case we will go to Civil Hospital.” However, some patients also found the higher health facilities to be their only option due to free medication, accessibility and availability of doctors, despite being disappointed with their results. A parent from Sindh elaborated on his visits to civil hospital, “The doctor has directed us to visit him after 2 days and also advised us to continue the medicines and to complete the course. But theses medicines are not giving any results. We come here because it is near to our home, doctor is available and the treatment is also free.” Parents’ Preconceived Notions – Parents attended a particular health facility due to their own personal preferences based on their past experiences or simply through their own preconceived notions. Some had a preference for a particular doctor, some for a specific hospital and some for certain medicines. One of the parents from Sindh Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 124 mentioned a doctor, “He has blessings as patient get well after taking medicines from this doctor. Whenever our children get sick, we visit this doctor.” Another parent from Sindh claimed, “Children are quickly cured through this hospital and doctor is also very professional.” Suggestions for Improvement The parents had plenty of