pharmacy in-charges the most commonly prescribed antibiotics for the treatment of respiratory tract infections were Amoxil (Amoxicillin), Oxidil (Ceftriaxone), Novidat (Ciprofloxacin) along with Zinc Sulphate in syrup form. The pharmacy in-charges interviewed were aware of the use of Zinc in the treatment of Diarrhea. Other popular treatment for diarrhea included ORS and Flagyl. One third of the Pharmacy in-charges categorically mentioned a percentage of prescription they received from government hospitals and these Pharmacy in-charges belonged to Sindh. According to them, somewhere in between 8-30% of the prescriptions were from government facilities while the rest were from private facilities. However, the remaining two thirds of the Pharmacy in-charges had mixed views. A few believed that prescriptions from private hospitals dominated, some were of the opinion that they received more from public sector health facilities, whereas the rest believed that there was no difference. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab stated, “I receive prescriptions Summary of Perspective of GPs • Unavailability of clean drinking water was the root cause of all diseases • Acceptability of DT required testing prior to scale up • Keen on trainings, wanted government to play a more active role in organizing trainings, wanted government to act more responsible Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 95 from both public and private health facilities. It is 50:50 ratios. In very rare cases, patients are specifically referred to my medical store.” A pharmacy in-charge held government responsible for the substandard quality and poor logistics of the medicines and shared an elaborate feedback, “Government does not apply required checks and balances for the approval of such medicines in market. Other than Government's inefficiency, the specific temperature for medicine is not maintained in the chain supply process which really affects the quality of medicine when it reaches pharmacies.” Comparing Practices of GPs and Specialists Some pharmacists believed that specialists prescribed expensive medicines, while some thought otherwise. Some of the Pharmacy in-charges in Sindh believed that there was no particular difference in the prescribing patterns of GPs and specialists. Nonetheless, a general resentment towards the prescribing behavior of GPs existed. Patterns discussed in this section emerged in the responses of Pharmacy in-charges while comparing the two medical practitioners. Financial Gains – A couple of pharmacists from Sindh believed that primary interest of the doctors was patients’ wellbeing. Some pharmacists were also of the opinion that there were two types of medical practitioners, those who were