LITERATURE REVIEW 8 This chapter synthesizes literature reviewed for conducting the landscape analysis and subsequently developing the accountability framework and feasibility analysis. In the first section, description of global scenario along with Federal and provincial level policies and strategies are reviewed. This section further captures the existing management practices for Pneumonia and Diarrhea – including the shift from tablets/syrups to dispersible tablets; use of Low Osmolarity ORS, Oxygen, ARI timers, Pulse Oximeters. It concludes with a brief description of global context and best practices across the developing world. 2.1 GLOBAL SCENARIO Since 1990 a remarkable decline in child mortality has been observed. Children under five years of age who died in year 1990 to 2015 have dropped significantly, i.e. from 12.7 million to 5.9 million. The under-five mortality rate (U5MR) dropped 53% and the annual rate of decline accelerated from 1.8% during 1990-2000 to 3.9% in next five year span of 2000 to 2015 (Taylor, Schumacher & Davis, 2016). Owing to substantial progress in reducing child mortality during last decade, there still remains a difference in equity of progress between and within countries. Dimensions of these inequities are complex and can include economic status, geographic location, parents’ education level, urban and rural residence, ethnic group and gender. This is evident from fact that almost 9 out of 10 deaths of children under the age of five occur in lowand lower middle income countries. Similarly, children from poor households in those countries are 1.9 times more likely to die than children from richest households (Arregoces et al, 2015). Children therefore, continue to die of preventable causes and more so if they are disadvantaged by the conditions in which they live. Child survival must be the heart of global health and development goals, only then Sustainable Development Goal of under-five mortality, target of 25 per 1,000 live births is to be attained by 2030 (Becerra-Posada, 2015). The complexity in defining quality perhaps stems from the fact that there are gaps in our knowledge regarding the type of services required, and the expectations of populations and healthcare workers regarding the outcomes associated with these services. In the face of advancements in medical sciences and technology, the performance of healthcare delivery system seems to have floundered when it comes to consistently providing high quality care to all (Institute of Medicine, 2001). One of the most commonly cited definitions of quality, in the context of