concentration countries. In 2006, in an effort to regenerate diarrhea programs, WHO, UNICEF, USAID and Johns Hopkins University jointly released detailed guidelines for countries, but progress was slow and use did not increase. In 2011, Diarrhea Pneumonia Working Group (DPWG), brought together efforts for both disease conditions and to support the increase of programs in 10 high concentration countries (Taylor, Schumacher & Davis, 2016). Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI) programs were initiated in 1990s, based on evidence from studies that childhood pneumonia could be diagnosed and treated with antibiotics in community settings. Mass implementation of antibiotic treatment, especially at the community level, met resistance. In 1995, with the absorption of pneumonia into IMCI, attention and resources disappeared, as was the case with diarrhea. In the early to mid-2000s, child survival publications and mortality estimates Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 13 raised the importance of pneumonia and the potential impact of effective interventions. Simultaneously, GAVI and Bill Gates Foundation provided funding for the development of new vaccines that would prevent pneumonia (pneumococcal/HIB). GAVI funded Pneumonia DIP and the HiB initiative aimed at country adoption of the new vaccines. Nonetheless, for treatment interventions, concern did not begin to rise until 2006, when WHO and UNICEF released “Pneumonia: The Forgotten Killer of Children”. This drive became more apparent in 2009 with the development of the WHO/UNICEFled Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD) that involved countries through informal consultations-and with iCCM there were attempts to expand access (Berlan, 2015; Taylor, Schumacher & Davis, 2016). Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD) WHO and UNICEF launched a comprehensive diarrhea control plan in 2009, meanwhile in same year Global Action Plan for Pneumonia Prevention and Control was launched (WHO & UNICEF, 2013). Health professionals around the globe owned both the agendas, but expressed a need of an integrated approach for pneumonia and diarrhea. WHO and UNICEF took the initiative and conceptualized an integrated approach for tackling pneumonia and diarrhea, resulting in launch of Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea in April 2013 (Qazi et al, 2015). GAPPD is a framework with and emphasize on integrated approach to protect, prevent and treat both the diseases (WHO & UNICEF, 2013). Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 14 Protect, Prevent and Treat Framework Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea 2013, has an ambitious goal of ending preventable childhood deaths by 2025, and to achieve that, it