the rights of the patients will require multileveled efforts. As a first step, it is important that a Production Promotion Working Group is notified. Simultaneously, it is important that efforts on the demand creation through the change in the prescribing behaviour of the healthcare providers are carried out on war footings. A strong and continuous engagement of all stakeholders is a need of the hour. Our findings suggest that the Ministry of National Health Services Regulation and Coordination and the Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan need to establish and operate a Production Promotion Working Group to incentivize the local manufacturing of these commodities. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 183 Assumptions Informing Theory of Change Each strategic area and the associated outcome are based on a certain set of assumptions that guide our theory of change. It is very important to understand and outline the assumptions associated with each outcome. In the following lines, the assumptions associated with the strategic areas are discussed. Policy Change Existing national and provincial policies and guidelines are updated in line with the global recommendations (WHO/GAPPD) for management of diarrhea and pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan by 2019. The following are assumptions and preconditions for the necessary policy change: • Evidence based advocacy efforts are conducted with the relevant decision makers and these efforts bring about the necessary changes in the attitude of the decision makers. • Child Survival groups are empowered, committed and capable of implementing the interventions • A joint accountability framework and annual work plan is formed under the stewardship of child survival groups • Policy makers and professionals have improved knowledge about the effectiveness of the new global recommendations and are fully on board for the changes required • The essential medicine lists and procurement lists have been updated to incorporate the new recommendations • The Health Information Systems are updated to reflect the new commodities • Governments make the pneumonia and diarrhea a priority by including the indicators in their Prioritized Monitoring systems Clinical Management Practices Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 184 Revised and updated pneumonia and diarrhea treatment guidelines are translated into relevant action plans by all provincial/areas health departments in Pakistan by the end of 2019. The following are assumptions and preconditions for the outcome: • Medical schools are ready to put additional focus on the Pneumonia and diarrhea • Government provides enough funding and administrative attention