source. An indicative structure of the report is mentioned below and will be discussed with UNICEF team for finalization: • Title page • Table of contents • Executive Summary with the purpose of the study, key findings, conclusions and recommendations in priority order ( 3-4 pages) • Background/context of the study that includes a description of the project interventions, Log frame/result matrix/theory of change • Purpose • Key questions and scope of the study • Methodology (data collection process, methods, tools with information on limitations) • Key findings, conclusions and recommendations (in priority order) Duty Station: Islamabad, UNICEF office with local travel to Punjab and Sindh. 3. REASONS WHY THE ASSIGNMENT CANNOT BE DONE BY A UNICEF STAFF MEMBER: (Please give specific reasons to justify usage of consultant or Contractor (Individual or Institutional): The baseline landscape analysis is a review process to assess all the relevant aspects of the project especially looking at existing polices, their comparison with GAPPD ground situation regarding treatment and prevention of Pneumonia and diarrhea. This has to be undertaken by an independent, third party consultant to ensure objectivity and independence. This, in turn, can be used to determine appropriate interventions in the project areas 4. WORK ASSIGNMENTS, DELIVERABLES & PAYMENT SCHEDULE: Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 205 TASK TO BE PERFORMED (Indicate expected work to be performed.) DELIVERABLE(s) (Specify final outputs.) WORK SCHEDULE (month/period covered) TERMS OF PAYMENT (no more than 30% advance/ Final payment no less than 10%) • Preparatory meetings with the Supervisor and the relevant UNICEF staff, of the Consultant for discussion and guidance on the assignment. • Desk review of documents. • Briefing of consultant(s). • Deliverable One (D1): Drat Inception Report for the assignment along with execution plan as per UNEG’s/UNICEF’s quality standards, including research tools and research framework prepared and submitted. The final inception report will be submitted after incorporation of all comments received from UNICEF. Reference Group and stakeholders. 14st Oct to 4th November 2016 30% • Prepare the first draft of baseline landscape analysis with identification of barriers and gaps in existing policy translation and their relevance to GAPPD, commodity access both in public & private sector and mapping of key stake holder in details, Qualitative information on public and private sector providers’ competency to dealing P&D and analysis of the role of the Lady Health Worker (LHW) program and other actors on demand creation and improve