it is necessary in the public interest so to do, the Registration Board may register a drug on its own motion without having received any application for registration.” SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 11 1.6 Conclusion 1. The public health supply chain system was predominantly mixture of “push” and “pull” system. But in case of unavailability of demanded medicines it becomes “Push” system 2. The issues of report submission could be resolved with computerized inventory management system 3. During the process of LMIS and revised DHIS integration difficulties may occur. These difficulties may be due to different master sheets and SoPs of data entry and results. 4. The medicines forecasting and quantification should be based on the WHO recommendations to minimize the stock-outs. 5. The storage capacity of medicines at health facility level was not enough. The staff who is handling the pharmaceuticals needs WHO recommended technical knowledge. 6. The medicines distribution system from district warehouse to health facility were not based on any forecast criteria. Department of health does not have suitable vehicles for pharmaceutical transportation which creates hurdle in distribution plans 7. The process of prequalification of manufacturers was not up to the mark. It does not accurately judge the production capacity of manufacturers. Delays in supplies has been observed from manufacturers. 1.7 Recommendations 1.7.1 Immediate Recommendations 1. The inventory of medicines of health facilities should be managed by computerized inventory management system. 2. The medicines forecasting should be based on comparison of morbidity and consumption method. 3. Immediate steps should be taken for strengthening of DTL of Sindh; for quality assurance of medicines procured for public health facilities. 4. The basic technology for integration of LMIS with revised DHIS should be planned for comprehensive data mapping, system synchronization, software updates and aligned with continuous financial and technical support. 5. Based on WHO recommendations, Zinc DT should be used instead of Zinc syrup for the treatment of Diarrhea. 6. The distribution of medicines should be in the form of complete courses or Kits so that the STG should be followed. 1.7.2 Medium term Recommendations 1. Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) should be developed among stakeholders for daily data sharing interface between LMIS & revised DHIS. 2. During the consultation with the stakeholders, key performance indicators should be finalized and should be regularly monitored. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 12 3. In integrated LMIS and DHIS, STG should