(Control of Diarrhoeal Diseases) EPI (Extended Program On Immunization) B) Standard Guidelines for Diagnosis & Management of Pneumonia & Diarrhea (Mark for available and not available ) Guidelines Available Not Available B1 Guidelines for Pneumonia/ARI case management B2 Guidelines for Diarrhea/Dysentery Case Management B3 Guidelines on Storage of Drugs B4 Guidelines for Cold Chain Management B5 EPI Guidelines C) Essentials for Pneumonia & Diarrhea Case Management: (Mark for yes or No) Commodities Available Yes No Functional Yes No C1 Oxygen cylinder C2 Oxygen flow meter C3 Pulse oximeter C4 Ambo bag (For Child) C5 Nebulizer C6 ILR to maintain cold chain C7 Supplies to mix and dispense ORS (e.g. cup) C8 Source of clean drinking water C9 Ambulance • ILR (Ice Lined Refrigerator) • ORS (Oral Rehydration Solution) 11. ANNEX 132 D) Drugs for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Treatment: (Mark for available and not available status of drugs but for stock outs write the number of months for which medicine was not available) Drugs for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Treatment Current status Available Not Available/Expired Stock Outs * (July 2016 June 2017) D1 Syrup Amoxicillin D2 Amoxicillin Dispersible Tablets (DT) D3 Injection Amoxicillin D4 Pneumococcal Vaccine D5 Syrup Zinc D6 Zinc Dispersible Tablet (DT*) D7 ORS packets D8 ORS-Zinc Co-packaging D9 Ringer lactate Solution D10 0.45% Normal Saline/ Dextrose Saline • DT (Dispersible tablet) • Note: Please check the Stock register (medicines/supplies) for stock outs and write number of months for mentioned period E) Record keeping and Reporting (DHIS): (Mark for yes or No) Commodities Material Available Yes No Updated Yes No E1 OPD Register E2 In-patients Register (RHC) E3 Stock Register (Medicine/Supplies) E4 Stock Register (Equipment/Furniture) E5 PHC Facility Monthly Report Form E6 Procedures Manual for DHIS/MIS • OPD (Out-patient Department) • RHC (Rural Health Centre) • PHC (Primary Health Care) • DHIS (District Health Information System) 133 1. I‘d like to know about main childhood related illnesses in the catchment area of your facility. Can you please comment on the caseload of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Probes: i. About what proportion of children (less than 5 years) is brought to this facility that suffers from Pneumonia and Diarrhea? ii. What is your view about the major causes of spread of these diseases in your community and how can this be prevented? iii. What type of treatment approach or professional help is commonly preferred in the community for these diseases (e.g. self-treatment,