by the project management team. A valuable result of the discussion around the given TOC of the project was the inference shared by the management team that certain issues and challenges that need addressing for resolving bottlenecks in project implementation to ensure achievement of results needed different pathways of change. Based on the consultations with all stakeholders, the current TOC was thoroughly revised to achieve the desired outcomes of supporting child survival in Pakistan through improved diagnosis and treatment of childhood P&D. Proposed TOC (Figure 9) was further connected with the proposed recommendations put forward by the evaluation team as described in Annex 7. It was reviewed and endorsed by the counterparts at Federal Ministry, Provincial Health Departments and UNICEF for course correction and ensuring the best use of the remaining project duration. Lessons Learnt – Policy Implementation Outcome • Evidence of improved management of childhood illnesses through updated commodities accelerated the policy implementation phase. • LHWs were empowered through provision of modern diagnostic gadgets. • Engagement of implementing partners pave way for enhancing the array of expertise to effectively support the policy implementation. • Despite the resources and capacities, the local pharmaceutical manufacturing industry lacked interest in local production due to minimal demand of updated commodities in open market. Lessons Learnt – Knowledge Management Outcome • A systems strengthening approach is essential to make the project interventions well entrenched and effective for improving infant and childhood morbidity and mortality. • Updated federal and provincial policies and guidelines reflect the recognition of improved management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea as a shared goal. • Sustainability of P&D project depends on achievement of results as perceived by the stakeholders including government, partner agencies, health facility staff and patients. Midterm Evaluation Report 68 Figure 9: Proposed Theory of Change Midterm Evaluation Report 69 6. Recommendations The following recommendations were elicited through a consultative and participatory process among all key stakeholders mentioned above. Guides used for key informant interviews and focus group discussion included sub-sections on the respondents’ perspective on bringing improvement in the project and its interventions while moving forward. In addition to these respondents, members of the Reference Group at federal level and project implementation team at UNICEF all provided valuable inputs in identifying the recommendations. During the meetings with these stakeholders, these recommendations were discussed at length and finalized in the participatory manner. The recommendations are further divided into short, medium