The LMIS program of LHWs does not report the stock status of Amoxicillin suspension and Zinc supplement. 4. In the public health supply chain system, frequent stock outs were reported. Medicines forecasting was based on consumption methodology which does not fulfill WHO recommendations. Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, however, has adopted mix method approach of medicines forecasting that is consumption + morbidity based forecasting. In Punjab, E-procurement cell has developed the medicines forecasting which is also based on consumption method. By and large, in the vertical program the reasons for stock out were common in all provinces. 5. Bulk orders were given to the prequalified manufacturers who were responsible to supply the medicines to all the districts simultaneously. The supplies, however, were not made within agreed time which was one of the contributing factors of stock out. 6. In Sindh, the medicines samples were not sent to the Drug Testing Lab for quality assurance on frequent basis. They assumed that prequalified manufacturers do not require laboratory analysis. Another reason was time required by the DTL for submission of analytical reports. 7. WHO and NEML 2016 recommend solid oral dosage form of Zinc in the treatment of Diarrhea rather Zinc syrup. In government procurement Zinc Syrup is common as compared to Zinc tablet that was only available at DHQ hospital Bahawalnagar Punjab. Commercially, this syrup was only available in large pharmacies. Zinc syrup contains sugar as sweetening agent which is not recommended by WHO in Diarrhea because it can cause osmotic Diarrhea and hypernatremia. The gap of availability of amoxicillin suspension was observed during the assessment. 8. The drug registration process takes 3 to 4 years. Commercial market of Amoxicillin DT and Zinc DT was not established yet. This situation, therefore, could not motivate manufacturer to take interest and get their product registered with DRAP. The drug law “Procedure for Registration of Drugs” clause 2. (v) states “Provided that under special circumstances to be recorded in writing, the Registration Board may register a drug and require such investigations and clinical trials to be conducted after its registration.” And clause 2. (ix) further states “Where it is necessary in the public interest so to do, the Registration Board may register a drug on its own motion without having received any application for registration.” SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 11 1.6 Conclusion 1. The public health supply chain system was predominantly mixture of “push” and