these respondents, members of the Reference Group at federal level and project implementation team at UNICEF all provided valuable inputs in identifying the recommendations. During the meetings with these stakeholders, these recommendations were discussed at length and finalized in the participatory manner. The recommendations are further divided into short, medium and long-term actions according to the stipulated timelines for their implementation. While the Project will focus on the short to medium term recommendations, there are certain long-term recommendations that will be achievable beyond the project life. Below are the key, strategic recommendations followed by a matrix for easy understanding and action: In the causal pathway of policy transformation and reforms, the stage of policy implementation is the most critical. This is the point where rightly developed policies fail due to lack of systems’ capacity to sustain and implement this change on its own. In order to make the P&D Project interventions institutionalized in the existing system, the strengthening of health sector at individual, organization and systems’ level is of utmost importance. A systemsstrengthening approach is recommended while moving forward so that the interventions under P&D Project are well entrenched in existing system for sustainability beyond the project life. This systems strengthening approach will fill the gaps in each building block of the existing health system to ensure child survival in Pakistan. This includes building an equitable health system, improving quality of care at health facilities and outreach, development of robust information systems, establishing integrated supply chain management system and most importantly, engagement of private sector, which is providing services to nearly 70% during childhood illness in Pakistan. Enabling policy environment Sustenance of federal-provincial-district linkages and coordination should be strengthened and continued through existing platforms at federal level (RMNCAH Group), provincial level (CSG and TWG), and district level (District Health & Population Management Teams). Government capacities at all level should be built and a district systems strengthening package should be implemented in the project areas to ensure commodities security and training of care providers on IMNCI and information systems. Details of the recommended actions along with timeline and roles are given in Table 7, whereas proposed short-term immediate actions are as follows: • Build a systems strengthening framework with package of system strengthening interventions at district and provincial levels. • Policy dialogues and roundtables on improving management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea through updated commodities. Private sector engagement – Being a service