with Pakpattan. 3.6 SAMPLE COMPOSITION The study sample comprised of professionals at policy and strategy development level (representatives from Federal ministry, provincial and district health departments; health sector reform units; IRMNCH/MNCH; donors and development partners); district managers (CEO District Health Authority in Punjab, District Health Officers (DHO) in Sindh, DHIS Coordinator); representatives of child survival group, officials from DRAP; leading pharmaceutical manufacturers of Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT and Low Osmolarity ORS, health-service providers (GPs at both public and private facilities, outreach field staff i.e. community health workers, in-charges of health facilities and pharmacies); service-users (parents/guardians of children under treatment). Selection of health 26 facilities to interview facility in-charges was assisted by District Health Authority in Punjab and District Health Officers (DHO) in Sindh. GPs and Pharmacy in-charges were then selected in the same vicinity to minimize biases of the catchment area population. Similarly, LHWs were also selected from the same RHC. Parents/guardians exiting public as well as private health facilities in the same locality with children under 5 getting treatment for Diarrhea and Pneumonia were selected. As this study aimed to gain insights into prescribing behaviours of the 5 districts in Punjab and Sindh and was qualitative in nature, a purposive sampling technique was adopted. The sample size or the numbers of research participants was agreed upon with the UNICEF team. Purposive sampling methodology facilitated in making sampling choices that assisted in deepening understanding of the prescribing behaviours which was the focus of the research. A total of 5 focus group discussions (FGDs), with participants ranging from 8 to 10 in number, and 112 Key Informant Interviews (KIIs) were conducted with aforementioned target groups. Description of respondents for sampling matrix along with research techniques used is provided in the Table 2: Table 2: Qualitative Sampling Matrix Research Technique Respondent No. Key Informant Interviews Focus Group Discussions Federal Ministry, Associations and DRAP Representatives from Provincial Health Departments Development Partners and Donor Agencies Officials from Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Companies Managers at District Health Departments In-charges of Health Facilities General Practitioners In-charges of Pharmacies Parents/Guardian for Exit Interviews Total Number of Sessions Community-based/Outreach Service Providers 4 10 3 10 10 10 15 15 35 5 117 27 3.7 THE INCEPTION PHASE ​Contech team worked in close collaboration with UNICEF from the inception to the completion of this landscape analysis report. Immediately after signing of contract, an inception meeting for the proposed study with UNICEF