• Reduce household air pollution Interventions to Treat • Improved care seeking and demand generation within communities • Case management for pneumonia and diarrhoea at community and health facility levels • Increasing access to appropriate care for pneumonia through CCM • Increasing access to appropriate care for diarrhoea through CCM • Oral rehydration therapy (low-osmolarity ORS) • Zinc treatment for children with diarrhoea Step 2.2. Summarize the interventions that are not included in existing plans or strategies and need to be included Step 2.3. Describe the coordination mechanisms in place to implement the interventions described above Step 3. Identify the main problems pneumonia and diarrhoea control has faced The aim of this step is to identify interventions where more action is needed based on the situation analysis and also to identify the main problems affecting implementation. In doing so, describe the problems by major programmatic areas such as: • Policy/strategy, plans and guidelines • Planning, management, coordination and partnership • Human resources • Materials and financial resources • Logistics and supply chain management for vaccines, medicines, equipment, consumables, etc. • Access to services, including referral • Quality of service delivery • Communication and social mobilization 55 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) • Supervision, monitoring and evaluation • Health information system Step 4. Analyse causes of problems and identify options for overcoming them Step 5. Formulate recommendations for coordinated actions and identify specific actions that need to be taken with clear responsibilities and time frame These actions need to be reflected in existing plans of actions. Step 6. Monitor and track progress in implementation of the actions identified Assess whether systems are in place to provide data to target and monitor the impact of interventions 56 Annex 4. Terms of reference for national working group for pneumonia and diarrhoea prevention and control 13 Purpose of working group 12 • The purpose of this working group is to ensure coordinated implementation of interventions for pneumonia and diarrhoea protection, prevention and control. Membership • Relevant programme managers from MoH (or equivalent): mother and child health, community health, immunization, nutrition, health information, health systems, essential drugs, HIV, planning, water, sanitation and hygiene, air quality • Relevant stakeholders from: Ministries of Water, Environment, Energy, Education, Planning, Finance • Interested NGOs, professional groups, medical training institutions, private sector, mass media • Relevant international organizations, e.g. WHO,