for setting targets and monitoring progress in access to modern energy for households and community services, pollutant emission levels and electricity supply. The proposed framework will be tested and refined, with a view to implementation within two to three years. 10 . Global role of partners The achievement of the global objectives for pneumonia and diarrhoea control will require coordination of relevant programmes at country and regional levels, as well as expanded support from development agencies and those managing emergencies and outbreaks. Partners will be called on to align their support with government-led action plans and priorities.2 The goals of the GAPPD support those of the Global Strategy for Women’s and Children’s Health and the EWEC movement, and in particular, support the call for action of the Committing to Child Survival: A Promise Renewed. A core group of international partners from United Nations agencies, technical institutions and other stakeholders spearheaded the development of the GAPP and the GAPPD. The partners are leading specific activities related to their expertise and interest and may assign dedicated staff to these activities. Within the United Nations system, WHO and UNICEF have a leading responsibility based on their combined expertise and experience of child survival efforts. Many international governmental and NGOs are already providing, or planning to provide, assistance to developing countries to help build and sustain national capacity for control of pneumonia and diarrhoea in young children. These activities are usually integrated into actions designed to address the MDG 4 target. Such supportive activities must be maintained and enhanced with, where necessary, specific emphasis on pneumonia and diarrhoea, and must be sustained beyond 2015. Regional and international agencies will be called upon to provide technical assistance for country activities, and where appropriate, provide opportunities for country-to-country 2 For a full list of recommended indicators refer to: WHO/UNICEF, 2012. Toolkit for monitoring and evaluating household water treatment and safe storage programmes. http://www.who.int/household_water/resources/ toolkit_monitoring_evaluating/en/index.html exchange of experience. These activities are likely to include: revision, adaptation and development of technical, operational and managerial policies; pricing of vaccines, drugs and equipment; and presentation of a concise technical programme with projections of cost and outcomes. For example, UNICEF and partners are working closely with manufacturers to increase zinc availability, as UNICEF is the largest buyer of zinc tablets, representing over 80% of international procurement. It is also the largest procurer of dispersible amoxicillin tablets. Key partners can also make