to GAPPD, commodity access both in public & private sector and mapping of key stake holder in details, Qualitative information on public and private sector providers’ competency to dealing P&D and analysis of the role of the Lady Health Worker (LHW) program and other actors on demand creation and improve care seeking behaviors • Providing recommendations for filling the existing gaps • Incorporation of final comments of supervisor, Reference Group and all stakeholders in the report • D2: A comprehensive First draft landscape analysis, highlighting the barriers and gaps in existing policies, commodity access and mapping exercise of key stake holders and capacity of providers in dealing P&D, Discuss the first with Supervisor and share with Reference group for review and feedback. • PPT presentation of draft report to relevant stakeholders and members of Child Survival group. D3: Final report agreed with Supervisor and submitted. 05th November 2016 to 25th January 2017 26th Jan 2017 to 12th Feb 30 % 25% Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 206 • Final debriefing of UNICEF team and relevant stakeholders with PPT presentation. D4: PPT presentation to all relevant stakeholders. 13 February 2017 15% 5. TOR FOR STUDIES AND EVALUATIONS REVIEWED AND ENDORSED BY THE PROGRAMME MONITORING, EVALUATION AND RESULT (PMER) SPECIALIST: (Please tick) Yes No 6. ESTIMATED DURATION OF CONTRACT (Indicate start of contract but not earlier than CRC: if CRC is required): The duration of this consultancy is four months. Start date: 14th October 2016 End date: 13th February 2017 7. OFFICIAL TRAVEL INVOLVED (Specify if international or domestic travel will be required of the consultant/contractor): NA, based in Islamabad. 7.1 Local Travel International Travel 7.2 Anticipated Travel Itinerary (Annex 1 – Please complete Travel Plan template QTRP): TBD 8. QUALIFICATIONS OR SPECIALIZED KNOWLEDGE/EXPERIENCE REQUIRED (Indicate skills and qualifications requirement): a) Qualification: • A consultative/research firm with comprising of team leader with Masters or PhD level degree in development studies/social sciences/ Public Health from a reputed university • The Team having members with 5-10 experience and relevant qualification/technical expertise in conducting research work, data collection and analysis at Household & health facility level, conducting in-depth interviews and focus group discussions b) Work Experience: • Minimum 10 years of relevant work experience in the areas of multi-sector program planning, conducting baseline/landscape analysis, monitoring and evaluation. The consultant/s should have demonstrable expertise in evaluation/research design, literature review, Results Based Management (RBM) and evaluations (preferably