idea of including the pneumonia and diarrhea separately in the health information systems of public health facilities after a broad consultation with all the stakeholders. Few managers questioned the practicality of the inclusion of pneumonia and diarrhea in DHIS at the BHU level. One manager expressed his reservation, “These diseases should definitely be listed separately in the DHIS at the secondary and tertiary level, though it won’t be practical at the BHU level.” Upgrading the Information Systems Considering the significant role of MIS system in combating mortality and morbidity due to pneumonia and diarrhea, KII’s were conducted with DHIS focal person of Sindh and Punjab. It was informed that in Punjab, a new PC-1 is being developed for up-grading DHIS and is expected to be finalized within two months. DHIS-II will have mechanism to collect and disseminate data of disease prevalence on daily basis and generate alert for any suspected disease out-break/epidemic to ensure timely response. Also it will have provision for data sharing at district, provincial, federal level and inter-provincial level. Moreover, it will integrate MIS systems of all vertical programs as currently it is only integrated with IRMNCH. DHIS II will be a standard tool, which will capture data from all the vertical programs (including; IRMNCH, LHW, Dengue, Malaria, Hepatitis, T.B DOTS Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 58 programs and LMIS etc.).Furthermore, it was shared that it has been approved to update the DHIS and MIS of LHWs to reflect the new commodities. This change will report the stock outs of Amoxicillin DT and Zinc DT in the DHIS. Furthermore, the recording and reporting tools of the LHWs will have columns and rows to document Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT and ARI timers. Furthermore it was informed that the plans are in place for LHWs to be trained on these new tools. Provincial managers informed that the Sindh is also in the process of upgrading and revising DHIS tools and procedure manual. It was revealed that the final draft has been prepared after consultations with the stakeholders and it was informed that the revised tools and manuals will go into printing. It was reported that new draft of DHIS, includes indicators about availability of Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT and Low osmolarity ORS in the in the stock available at the facility. It also has a provision of entering OPD data for diarrhea and dysentery separately for under 5 children