community case management of pneumonia The Lady Health Workers (LHW) Programme, Save the Children – United States and WHO sought to increase demand in communities of Haripur district, Pakistan (population over 700,000) for CCM of pneumonia. This was the first stage of a trial to determine the effectiveness of CCM for children 2-59 months with WHO-defined severe pneumonia by LHWs using oral amoxicillin. At baseline, only 0.9% of caregivers of children with pneumonia sought care from LHWs, even though LHWs had been trained to manage pneumonia in the community. Qualitative research showed that community members perceived LHWs as preventive and promotional care providers with limited or no role in curative care. Based on these findings, the following interventions were implemented to create awareness among community leaders and households and increase prompt care seeking and demand for treatment of pneumonia by LHWs. A. District and sub-district level advocacy: Individual and group meetings were held with district and sub-district nazims (mayors), religious leaders, teachers and other opinion leaders to communicate messages around LHWs’ capacity to manage pneumonia. Their support was sought to disseminate messages to their respective communities, and to motivate community members to seek care from LHWs. B. Reactivation of men’s and women’s village health committees: To create awareness and facilitate their work in the community, the programme established or reactivated men’s and women’s health committees. C. Training of LHWs and male health activists (MHAs) in community engagement: The LHWs are required to conduct at least one community awareness session (CAS) per month on maternal, newborn and child health topics in their catchment areas. However, pre-service training does not provide the necessary skills to engage with community women, who are often older than the LHWs. Communities were requested to nominate a male volunteer from each LHW’s catchment area as a health activist (MHA) to facilitate the work of the LHW and to conduct CAS for men. The LHWs and MHAs were trained in community mobilization and were taught how to facilitate the CAS. The training included classroom sessions, role plays and supervised community sessions. Initial training was followed by regular on-site mentoring by Lady Health Supervisors (LHSs) and six monthly refresher sessions. After two years of programme implementation, care seeking for treatment of pneumonia by LHWs increased to 50%. This shift in care seeking from LHWs has brought quality care closer to home and decreased visits to referral facilities from 46.7%