out a seven-point action plan for comprehensive diarrhoea control. Treatment The treatment package focuses on two main elements: • Fluid replacement to prevent dehydration • Zinc treatment Oral rehydration therapy is the cornerstone of fluid replacement. New elements of this approach include low-osmolarity ORS, which is more effective at replacing fluids than previous ORS formulations, and zinc treatment, which decreases diarrhoea severity and duration. Other important components are continued feeding, including breastfeeding, during the diarrhoea episode and use of appropriate fluids available in the home if ORS are not available. Prevention package The prevention package focuses on five main elements to reduce diarrhoea in the medium to long term: • Increasing coverage of rotavirus and measles vaccines • Promoting early and exclusive breastfeeding and vitamin A supplementation • Promoting handwashing with soap 39 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) • Improving water supply quantity and quality, including treatment and safe storage of household water • Promoting community-wide sanitation New aspects of this approach include rotavirus vaccination, which was recently recommended for global introduction into national vaccination programmes, and approaches to increase demand to stop open defecation, which have proven more effective than previous strategies. Implementation of the prevention package must be approached in a concerted way, because single interventions alone are likely to have lesser overall impact. For example, diarrhoea caused by rotavirus cannot be prevented solely by improvements in water and sanitation, and rotavirus vaccine does not prevent other pathogens (such as E. coli and Shigella) from causing diarrhoea. The package should be accompanied by clear, targeted and integrated behaviour and social change communication strategies to improve uptake by families and communities. 40 Annex 2. Key actions for selected interventions 2.1. Universal access to safe drinking-water, hygienic sanitation and handwashing facilities Initial implementation plan Providing safe, reliable, piped-in water and safe sanitation to every household is the ultimate goal of global efforts and would yield optimal health gains while contributing to the MDG targets for poverty reduction, nutrition, childhood survival, school attendance, gender equity and environmental sustainability.3 Four WASH interventions—increased access to water, improved drinking-water safety, adequate sanitation and handwashing with soap—have been shown to be effective in significantly reducing the incidence of diarrhoeal disease.4 These are highlighted as proven prevention interventions in the 7-point strategy for comprehensive diarrhoea control, adopted by UNICEF and WHO in 2009.5 Achieving meaningful health