addition, a policy note should be circulated from the Health Department to specify that this increase would be awarded to improve supplies of commodities for treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia in specified health facilities. For this reason, a detailed study should be undertaken on the districts that have high disease prevalence and incidence and the stock availability of the essential commodities for the treatment of the two diseases. 4.1.6. Improvement in budget management practices Three types of improvements are recommended in the budgetary practices: 1. Each DDO should be communicated with its budget, after approval from the legislative assembly, maximum by 15th August each year. At present a number of DDOs receive this information by October / November. 2. The Finance Departments in the provinces should be requested to amend the funds release policy and allow 100% release of funds on the 1st of July each year for the budget head A03927 titled ‘procurement of drugs and medicines’. 4.1.7. Development of IT systems Punjab government has developed a number of IT applications that is aiding it in procurements, stock monitoring, and provision and use of medicines at health facilities level. A seminar should be arranged where Punjab government may be requested to show-case the IT systems to other provinces. A feasibility analysis should be undertaken on adoption of these IT systems in other provinces. 4.1.8. Determination of policy on reduction of out-of-pocket expenditure The Government should formulate a policy regarding reduction of out-of-pocket expenditure. If the policy is to provide universal healthcare services to all then it should aim to plan for increase of budgetary resources together with supply chain management processes over a specified period of time. 26 Reduction of out-of-pocket expenditure may require the following types of strategies to be put in place to transition towards universal healthcare coverage: 1. Provision of a more holistic community based health workers, 2. A policy of increase in pre-payment mechanism this can be done through introduction of health insurance cards for the lowest quantile including their family members. Coverage can also be extended to lower-middle-income quantile by introducing voluntary health insurance, 3. Increase in provincial level taxation in order to allow additional fiscal space for the provision of health care services, 4. Increase in budgetary allocations proportionate to allocations in other sectors, 5. Investments in patient referral system so as to avoid patient congestions at the secondary and tertiary health care