round tables, face-to-face meetings, policy briefs. 110 The politicians should be reached out during this upcoming electoral process to put the emphatic focus on Pneumonia and Diarrhea in their manifestos. Media (electronic / print) The government and implementers in line departments should be encouraged to continue implementation to improve access to quality child survival services and essential commodities for communities. Ministers should be focused to encourage communicating this spirit to the line departments. The government should be promoted to play a strong monitoring and guiding role. Through media and intelligentsia: Advocacy seminars, round tables, faceto-face meetings, advocacy coalition, newspaper columns, editorials, talk shows. Donors and development partners Role of media: Collaborate with champions to highlight the child survival issues and the health challenges intertwined with them. Play a critical initial role in sensitizing politicians and government on these issues through their ‘privileged access’. Partner with major national media groups to highlight the issue among political actors and masses. Work with the news channels to frame the perspective. Facilitate the media personnel and intelligentsia in crafting messages. Through donors and development partners: Advocacy seminars Round tables Face-toface meetings Use local media to highlight the issue among communities and families e.g. report stories about the positive effects of effective Pneumonia and Diarrhea management. Role of donors and development partners: Use their influence to keep sustained focus on services provision and commodity access to reinforce this message in their interactions with policy makers and politicians. Make Pneumonia and Diarrhea part of their development programs including those with the government. 111 Local managers and healthcare providers At district level, advocate with local managers and service providers (GPs, medical stores/ Pharmacies). The critical role that managers can play in ensuring availability of recommended essential commodities and the providers’ role in raising need through counselling. Advocate with PMDC and medical universities to encourage the required prescribing behavior as well as making treatment guidelines, a part of education and training of the curriculum. CME activities to be arranged for providers to enhance their capacities to manage Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Round tables Faceto-face meetings workshops Seminars CME activities Community Gatekeepers Pharmaceutical companies Raise positive awareness about the use of essential commodities, and transmit messages that highlight the benefit. This will lead to effective demand creation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities. Additionally, advocacy with gate-keepers of the community will create a circle of influence that will further boost the