In Punjab and Sindh, UNICEF is supporting Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) program in their activities, and aims to end open defecation in 3,600 villages of Punjab and 13 districts of Sindh by 2018 (UNICEF, 2015). Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 19 National Essential Medicine List 2016 According to WHO (2014), “the availability of medicines in public sector facilities is only 39 percent, indicating a dearth of medicines for treatment.” National Essential Medicines List (2016), published by Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan, is an adaptation of 19th WHO Model List of essential Medicines of 2015. NEML was drafted by the Division of Pharmacy Services and is based on Pakistan’s disease burden, priority health conditions and affordability criteria. NEML 2016 is a list of 416 core drugs provided by government at primary and secondary healthcare facilities. With reference to UNICEF and WHO recommended commodities for pneumonia and diarrhea, NEML includes low-osmolarity ORS, Zinc Sulfate (20 mg) and Amoxicillin in solid oral dosage form (250mg & 500mg as trihydrate) (DRAP, 2016). Integrated Management of Newborn and Childhood Illnesses IMCI is an approved and recommended strategy by WHO for reducing infant and childhood mortality and morbidity through integrated management of major causes. Pakistan is implementing this strategy since late 90’s, but not at the required scale. Objective of IMNCI is to provide treatment to patients through comprehensive approach however, it is not limited to curative but incorporate preventive and promotive aspect of child health. It focuses on improvement of clinical management skills of healthcare personnel, strengthening healthcare delivery system for effective management of childhood illness and improving the family and community practices (Amin et.al, 2013). Rather IMNCI offers a holistic approach to manage childhood Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 20 morbidity through three components; Case management training, strengthening of health system, improvement of family and community practices for child health and development. WHOs Multi country evaluation (MCE) states that IMNCI can improve health worker performance and their quality of care, IMCI can reduce under-five mortality and improve nutritional status, if invested in IMNCI it costs up to six time less per child healthcare (WHO, 2017) Punjab Health Sector Strategy (2012:2020) Punjab Health Sector Strategy was developed in 2012 by Government of Punjab with support of Punjab Health Sector Reforms Programmes (PHRSP). It is drafted with an ambient of improvement in coverage and utilization of quality essential health services, particularly in low performing districts