is responsibility of supervision fixed? • Is the supervision integrated or service specific e.g. for EPI, CMWs, LHWs, etc.? • Is there any notified district schedule for supervisory visits to the primary level facilities and community based workers? • What are your suggestions to improve the monitoring and supervision of child health services in your district? 09. How frequently do you conduct evaluation to monitor the achievement of your facilities? • Have you generated or published any report/s of your evaluations. Kindly give some examples. 10. Do you have liaison with the local community, key persons, Community Based Organizations (CBOs) or elected representatives of the district? • What role do they play for acceptance of health services provided by you? Kindly give some examples about the support they support. • What is usefulness of local community liaison? 11. What is your user-charges/fee policy for services, particularly services of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • What are your suggestions to minimize the cost as a barrier for underutilization of these services? 11. ANNEX 166 12. What is your impression of current utilization of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services at primary level health facilities and in the community? How do you rate it as under, normal or over utilization? • If you are asked to take measures at various levels for improvement of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services, what measures will you suggest at managerial, facility and community level? REVISIT YOUR INTERVIEW If the following issues do not arise spontaneously during the answers to the above, you may want to raise them yourself. Note: Avoid asking direct questions as much as possible; rather, prompts should be in the form of ‘give us an example of …’, ‘what do you think of …’, ‘tell us more about … Availability of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services Human resource for management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea Facility Resources for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Community-based resources for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Recording and reporting of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services (DHIS) Monitoring, supervision & evaluation of health facilities and community based workers Community liaison and awareness Facility and community level utilization Suggestions for improvement 7. INTERVIEW GUIDES OF DISTRICT MANAGERS DISTRICT LHW COORDINATOR Before starting interview, remember to : • Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit • Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of study objectives • Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 01.