They are capable of managing their logistics budget from it. Health facilities with DDO power also have single line budget. ■ SoP or guidelines for medicines forecasting and quantifications were not provided at the district levels. ■ The Central Level Position, dedicated for logistics is mainly in the district. The logistics officers can exercise the same authority as any other functional unit head can. ■ The logistics responsibilities were managed by DHO, store keeper at the district level while at DHQ Hospital there are Hospital Pharmacist and Store Keepers. ■ The Public Private Partners (PPHI, IHS and HANDS) of the Sindh, have LMUs, which were indirectly supporting the government health facilities within their scope of work as described in their contracts. In Sindh, almost all the BHUs are handled by PPP except in the District Shaheed Benazirabad and Karachi. They facilitated the government for the product selection, forecasting, procurement, distribution inventory management, storage, staffing for logistics, financing for logistics and supervision. The government of Sindh procures medicines for THQ / RHCs (not handed over to IHS). As PPP, is facilitating the government so their strengths and capacities were reflected as government services. Their SCM activities were under the supervision of the dedicated logistics staff, showing best performance in their work. Although, they are facilitating the government, in terms of services and access to medicines. All indicators, were applied on these organizations as well, in order to explore the strengths of the system and to compare it with the government supply chain system. Such comparisons will help the government to adopt the strengths of service delivery standards; so that, at the time of exit of PPP service delivery, the standards will remain the same, especially in terms of SCMS. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 38 Punjab: LMU comprises “e-Procurement and Inventory Management Unit” which was an integrated system of medicines procurement. It has established central level position of logistics management in which districts procurement, drug testing labs and prequalified manufactures were involved. It also facilitates the medicines forecasting or preparation of rational demand based on the availability of the budget and the manufacturer’s capacity. The responsibilities of logistics, other than procurement, such as, inventory management, staffing and the product selection were served by the district team, under the supervision of CEO. ■ SoP of medicines forecasting and quantification (based on WHO guidelines) has been provided to all districts through PSPU