support for upgrading the software (one time support). The updated information system – DHIS-2 – will have mechanism to collect and disseminate data of disease prevalence on daily basis and generate alert for any suspected disease outbreak/epidemic to ensure timely response. It will further have provision for data sharing at district, provincial, federal levels. Provincial Manager from Punjab stated, “The previous information system lacked collection and dissemination of data on a daily basis. The updated information system – DHIS-2 – will have mechanism to collect and disseminate data of disease prevalence on daily basis and generate alert for any suspected disease out-break/epidemic to ensure timely response.” Based on a recommendation made in the situation analysis of supply chain management to introduce a comprehensive HLMIS, the MoNHSR&C organized a think tank meeting to review and discuss the upgrading and linkages between LMIS and DHIS. UNICEF provided support to the government for establishment and strengthening of comprehensive supply chain management system including forecasting, procurement, distribution, and real time stock maintenance and warehousing. This involves different programmes to create a digitalized HLMIS, integration of the software with other available data management systems including vLMIS and cLMIS and to establish its linking with DHIS-2. The updated LMIS will not only contain information along these two illnesses but will also cover MNCH commodities listed in the EMLs. This project is about to be piloted in 5 districts of Sindh and 05 districts of Punjab, where rest of the project interventions are going on from December 2019. “Technical experts from Oslo University have visited us and we are aiming at fast-track implementation with support of donors and development partners.” Provincial Manager in Punjab “DHIS 2 would help Pakistan to move from no data to data visibility and would help improve all LMIS practices.” Midterm Evaluation Report 41 4.1.5 Capacity building on updated commodities A pool of master trainers was trained at the provincial level to roll out trainings for healthcare providers from the districts. These trainings included the orientation on the use of updated commodities in management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea, and revised recording and reporting tools of DHIS. In Sindh, total of 9,742 doctors, including medical officers from district level healthcare faculties, private family physicians and paediatricians were trained on use of updated commodities. Out of these, 8, 102 were also oriented on the use of revised DHIS tools for recording and reporting of