and honestly. As promised, their anonymity was maintained throughout the study, and personal identifiers were removed from the data. None of the researchers had any conflict of interest. Keeping privacy and confidentiality of the respondents in consideration, all hard and soft copies of the collected data was kept securely and only authorized personnel of Contech had access to this database and its backup. Addressing Gender and Child Rights Issues This particular research entailed addressing gender, child rights and social exclusion barriers, hence the aforementioned notion was kept in consideration during varied phases including research/activity designing, consultations and stakeholder engagement, staff hiring and training, M&E and subsequent data analysis. During training of field teams, gender and child rights orientation was given as part of the study design. Study approaches and activities were reviewed for sensitivity in understanding the involved gender roles, norms and dynamics as well as child rights according to CRC. All phases of study were passed through sieve of gender, social exclusion, child rights and equity, ensuring the findings were cognisant of the factors. Gender is one of the organizing principles of Pakistani society. Local traditions and culture embody values pre30 determining gender values in society. There is considerable diversity in the status of women as well as rights of the children across classes, regions, and rural/urban divide due to uneven socioeconomic development and the impact of tribal, feudal, and social formations on women and children’s lives. Traditional norms surrounding the behaviour of women, including gender inequality, limited socioeconomic standing, low literacy rates, early marriage during adolescence, and high fertility, limit women’s ability to act in their own interest and compromise access to reproductive healthcare and family planning services. Children and youth (0-24 years of age) who make up over 60% of the population, still remain underserved by the health system. The rights of these children and youth are sensitive to social and cultural considerations including gender, language and religion. 3.14 STUDY LIMITATIONS Like any other research, this landscape analysis also faced certain limitations, which restricted the scope during the research process. Due to peak summers, observance of Ramadan and lag time during Eid holidays, data collection process was started with some delay. Another limitation was that only five districts in Punjab and Sindh were selected as part of this research design, which resulted in data that may not be generalized or representative of entire provinces. Moreover, seeking security