databases, 2009. Data are based on the latest available data during the period 2005-2008. Data are insufﬁcient for Latin America & Caribbean and CEE/CIS. * Excludes China Source: UNICEF global diarrhoea databases, 2009. Trend analysis is based on data for a subset of African countries with two or more comparable data points for periods around 2000 and 2007. This subset of countries covers 75 per cent (pneumonia), 50 per cent (diarrhoea) and 57 per cent (malaria) of children under age ﬁve in Africa. Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving at least one ORS packet during the illness, by region, 2005-2008 Too few children receive ORS to treat their diarrhoea FIGURE 17 FIGURE 16 Little progress has been made in the treatment of major childhood illnesses in Africa 24 Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done Trend analysis is limited by the lack of comparable data for the treatment recommendations from the 1990s (see section entitled ‘Data used in this report’). However, limited data for a subset of developing countries with comparable trend data since around 2000 suggest little progress in expanding coverage with the recommended treatment. In Africa, where nearly half of child deaths due to diarrhoea occur, these limited data also suggest little or no progress since 2000 in expanding treatment coverage for diarrhoea and other major childhood illnesses, including malaria and pneumonia (Figure 16). The lack of progress in the case management of these diseases underscores the urgent need to strengthen integrated, communitybased treatment of major childhood illnesses. This will require training for caregivers and community health workers who are linked to a functioning and responsive health-care system. ORS packets, including low-osmolarity ORS Only one third (33 per cent) of children with diarrhoea in developing countries receive ORS to treat their illness. This is true in almost every developing region of the world. Africa has the lowest levels of ORS use, at 29 per cent, and East Asia and the Paciﬁc (excluding China) has the highest levels, although still reaching only 38 per cent of children in need (Figure 17). Boys and girls are equally likely to receive ORS to treat diarrhoea. Children in urban areas (39 per cent) are more likely to receive ORS than those living in rural areas (31 per cent). Similarly, children from the wealthiest families are 1.5 times as likely to receive ORS to treat their diarrhoea