been any change in cost of treatment per patient? • How commonly do you prescribe medicines related to the treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea to be bought from market in case of its stock-out? 8In your opinion what should be done to improve the quality of pneumonia and diarrhea services in the entire health system? INTERVIEW GUIDE FOR DISTRICT MANAGERS CEO-DHA/EDOH/DHO Before starting interview, remember to: ⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit ⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of evaluation objectives ⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 1. First I’d like to ask you about the provincial guidelines/policies to address the challenges related to child health services. • What autonomy district health department/authority has got to make its own policies? 2. Do you have your district strategic or operational health plans? Do these plans include district Midterm Evaluation Report 101 targets for child health services, particularly management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • What is the situation of services for Pneumonia and Diarrhea in your district? • What initiatives district has taken for improvement of these services? 3. What is the status of human resource related to Pneumonia and Diarrhea, in primary level health facilities in your district? • What are care providers related issues for delivery of these services? • What initiatives government has taken to retain the staff on health facilities? • How do you address the absenteeism? • If not, what are the reasons for unavailability of staff? • In your opinion, how can situation of HR improve at public sector health facilities? 4. We are interested to learn about community-based healthcare providers (LHW/CMW). • What is their role in provision of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services, regarding diagnosis, treatment and referral? • What is the quality of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services provided by them? • What are your suggestions to further improve their services? 5. What do you think about the competence level of staff at primary level facilities and community based staff to manage diarrhea and pneumonia in children? • What is your routine mechanism for in-service training and capacity building of these staff in your district? • Do you have any in-service training programme for staff at primary level health facilities and community? • Any specific training for Pneumonia and Diarrhea care provider, like IMNCI or any other training? • If you don’t have