strict so that there was no such 57 repetition. LHWs maintained that their supervisors often arrange surprise visits to evaluate their performance and even visit patients’ households asking for feedback. They claimed that higher authorities like DHOs, District Coordinators and Assistant District Coordinators also arranged similar visits. 4.2.7.5 Maintenance of Records According to LHWs, a meticulous record was kept of each case they dealt with and of all the referrals they provided. Records of Pneumonia and Diarrhea were updated daily and submitted to the LHSs and District Coordinators on a monthly basis. Routinely recorded reports, outlining all referrals made during the month were also submitted. LHWs in Punjab reported that the government wasn’t providing the referral slips allocated to use for referral and record maintenance. Consequently, they were using self-printed alternatives, giving one copy to the patient and keeping another for record. The LHWs reported quick and comprehensive feedback from their superiors and suggested digitalization of the reporting system to ensure prompt response in case of outbreaks. 4.2.7.6 Liaison with Health Facilities and Other Workers All the LHWs reported that their health facility networks did not spread beyond the centers they were linked to and stated that they did not have any linkages with higher-level facilities like RHCs, THQs and DHQs. As a result, all patients were referred to the local BHU. Although they weren’t provided with conveyance or ambulance services, most patients reported competent doctors, good treatment and supportive staff. According to the LHW interviewed in the districts covered, only a few (2 in Punjab, 1 from Sindh) had community health workers (CMWs) operating within them and the number of working CMWs were also informed to be quite insignificant. The respondents further explained that both groups shared neither informal nor formal ties, working mostly by themselves, and denied collaborating with the local CMWs for any health related services or activities. 4.2.7.7 Comfort Level in the Field Though the LHWs worked within their own catchment area, most of them reported some degree of discomfort when going out onto the field; some stated they faced problems due to the troubling domestic situations and enmity between various groups, others reported safety concerns while walking through the streets alone. They added that they always tried to take along a female companion. However, overall most communities were described as cooperative and well informed about LHW services. 4.2.7.8 Community Awareness and Acceptability LHWs reported that