demand that hindered the availability of recommended commodities for management of childhood pneumonia and diarrhea in the open market. The project has added value by improving management practices of healthcare providers, mainly outreach workers and primary level facilities and majority of these facilities had adequate supply of P&D recommended commodities but prescription behavior of care providers needed improvement. It is pertinent to mention that project has made certain adjustments mid-way to increase effective implementation. The project has contributed in building ownership of provincial governments of its interventions, which is further evident through inclusion of recommended commodities in MSDP, EML and procurement lists, DHIS and MIS tools, IMNCI guidelines and their incorporation in Maternal and Newborn Health Package of Services under Disease Control Priorities, Edition 3 (DCP3) of Universal Health Coverage Benefit Package for Pakistan. Sustainability was assessed to measure whether the benefits of the project are likely to continue after donor funding is withdrawn. Sustainability and replicability of the project is to be ensured through institutionalization of key policies and guidelines within health system. Such challenges will be mitigated through enhanced government ownership and funding on P&D. Lessons learnt during the course of MTE revealed that for Policy Change, political will and commitment was essential for policy transformation and reforms agenda. Joint accountability framework assisted the project in steering the progress and tracking as establishing oversight and coordination platforms at all levels were critical in building government ownership and steering the project activities. For Policy Translation, efforts should be strongly supported through empirical evidence for development of advocacy material. A key factor was building the acceptability of the care providers while introducing new/revised commodities and without financial commitment; public procurement of updated commodities is not possible. At the level of Policy Implementation, evidence of improved management of childhood illnesses through updated commodities accelerated the policy implementation phase. However, despite the resources and capacities, the local pharmaceutical manufacturing industry lacked interest in local production due to minimal demand of updated commodities in open market. In Knowledge Management of outcomes of the project interventions, updated federal and provincial policies and guidelines reflect the recognition of improved management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea as a shared goal and sustainability of P&D project will depend on achievement of results as perceived by the stakeholders including government, partner agencies, health facility staff and patients. Midterm Evaluation Report x Conclusion and Recommendations In the causal pathway of