survival or health, IMCI, nutrition/IYCF, EPI, safe drinking-water, sanitation, hygiene and clean air? Are national standards in place for drinking-water and sanitation facilities in health facilities and in homes? Is there a budget line for drinking-water? Sanitation? Hygiene? Is spending on water and sanitation reaching levels committed at international forums such as the eThekwini Declaration,10 Libreville Declaration? 11 Within the policies are there considerations for emergencies and outbreaks? 8. Review budget for child health and nutrition Is there a budget line and how much is the national budget for child health for the current fiscal year? Is there a budget line and how much is the national budget for IMCI for the current fiscal year? Is there a budget line and how much is the national budget for EPI for the current fiscal year? Is there a budget line and how much is the national budget for nutrition for the current fiscal year? What is the national budget for water, sanitation and hygiene provision? List the main donors and additional donor funding that is received for each programme 9. Describe the organization of programmes in the MoH, and the linkages with other relevant sectors (look at organograms, describe existing relevant committees/ working groups) Review, summarize and analyse the information Step 2. Identify the pneumonia and diarrhoea protection, prevention and control interventions that have been included in existing policies/strategies/plans. These strategies and plans may include: national child health/ child survival strategy, immunization policy/strategy/cMYP, nutrition strategy, malaria policy/strategy, water, sanitation and hygiene policy/strategy, environmental health strategy, PMTCT/HIV plan, etc. Step 2.1. Review the interventions by: Interventions to Protect • Exclusive breastfeeding for 6 months • Adequate complementary feeding 10 2008. eThekwini Declaration and AfriSan Action Plan. http://www.afrisan.org/ Pages/EthekwiniDecl.aspx 11 2011. Libreville Declaration on Health and the Environment in Africa. http:// www.afro.who.int/en/regional-declarations.html • Vitamin A supplementation Interventions to Prevent • Measles vaccine • Spn vaccine • Hib vaccine • Rotavirus vaccine • Prevention of HIV in children • Cotrimoxazole prophylaxis for HIV-infected and exposed children • Treatment and safe storage of household water • Promotion of handwashing with soap • Community-wide sanitation promotion • Reduce household air pollution Interventions to Treat • Improved care seeking and demand generation within communities • Case management for pneumonia and diarrhoea at community and health facility levels • Increasing access to appropriate care for pneumonia through CCM • Increasing access to appropriate care for diarrhoea through CCM