landscape analysis To disseminate research 1) Decision makers: Federal, provincial and district health departments, officials from DRAP, Pharmaceutical manufacturers, PPA, Healthcare Commissions/Health Regulatory Authority and elected representatives. 2) Influencers: Donors and Development Partners, Media representatives, health service providers, intelligentsia, academia and health sector experts /professionals 200 2. Project completion report To present findings and conclusions drawn from the analysis and to highlight joint accountability framework for presenting theory of change. 1) UNICEF National and Provincial project Teams 2) UNICEF PMER Unit 1 3. Summarized research report Development of Summary Research report for wider dissemination Stakeholders from public/private sector, Development partners 200 4. Engage presentation Based on findings for graphical representation Stakeholders from public/private sector, Development partners 1 5. Research Paper/ Conference Abstract Publication in international journal or abstract for relevant conferences International conferences/ forums and peer review Journals 1 171 6. Press Release for Media To present findings and conclusions drawn from the analysis and to highlight joint accountability framework for presenting theory of change. General public, print and electronic media audience Relevant audience Recognize and highlight government role, community support and positive deviants in implementation of BMGF funded child survival project 7. Contech Website To enhance general interest in research study Bytes of research findings Far reaching, easily accessible dissemination of research findings Website viewers 8. Contech monthly update Disseminate information on the project and its objectives amongst Contech internal officers and staff Regular update on project progress/ findings Contech’s internal officers and staff online 11. ANNEX 172 9. Dissemination seminars at national and provincial levels hare findings of the research and ‘Lessons Learnt’ Inform policy and government strategy for enhanced commodity access with regards to Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Repositioning child survival policies and strategies 1) Decision makers: Federal, provincial and district health departments, officials from DRAP, Pharmaceutical manufacturers, PPA, Healthcare Commissions/Health Regulatory Authority and elected representatives. 2) Influencers: Donors and Development Partners, Media representatives, health service providers, intelligentsia, academia and health sector experts /professionals 3 @unicefpakistan @unicefpk www.unicef.org/pakistan @unicef_pakistan For every child Whoever she is. Wherever he lives. Every child deserves a childhood. A future. A fair chance. That’s why UNICEF is there. For each and every child. Working day in and day out. In 190 countries and territories. Reaching the hardest to reach. The furthest from help. The most left behind. The most excluded. It’s why we stay to the end. And never give up.