the following table. Table 4: Qualitative Sampling Matrix for Focus Group Discussions Sr. No. Types of Stakeholders No. of FGDs 1. Service Providers (Private Practitioners) 4 2. Pharmacists and Medical Store Keeper 4 3. Community Health Workers (LHWs, LHSs) 4 4. Beneficiaries/Service Users (Over 18Mothers/Caregivers of children under 5) 4 3.2.4 Quantitative Data Collection & Sampling Facility based data on prescription review was collected from 48 health facilities (24 Basic Health Units and 24 Rural Health Centers) within 12 selected districts of both Punjab and Sindh. This sample of BHUs and RHCs was selected, considering the focus of P&D Project interventions at the district level. From each health facility total of 10 prescriptions were reviewed, making it a total of 360 prescriptions reviewed as part of the quantitative analysis, which was used to address the evaluation question under efficiency. Table 5: Quantitative Sampling Matrix for Health Facilities BHUs per district 02 RHC per district 02 Prescription reviews per facility 10 PUNJAB Number of districts 03 Number of BHUs in 03 districts 06 Number of RHCs in 03 districts 06 Number of prescriptions reviewed 120 SINDH Number of districts 09 Number of BHUs in 09 districts 18 Number of RHCs in 09 districts 18 Number of prescriptions reviewed 360 3.3 Secondary Data As reflected in the literature review section, desk review of all the relevant project data available at federal, provincial and district level was conducted to inform the scope of the project and to develop a better insight of the current scenario. A comprehensive list of documents, not limited to Pneumonia and Diarrhea Strategic Framework, Federal and Provincial Policies and strategies, Provincial PC-1s, federal and provincial programmes and operational Midterm Evaluation Report 30 plans, Global mandates such as SDGs, UHC and National Health Vision, GAPDD Report, Evaluability study/baseline landscape and Pneumonia and Diarrhea project periodic monitoring and evaluation data, targets and monthly reporting data were taken into consideration to develop a thorough understanding of the project. Other documents reviewed included Project Documents for policy, systems, management and Supply chain management review as well as for Gender, Social Exclusion and Poverty (GSEP) analysis. Latest rounds of available datasets like PSLM, PDHS, MICS, HFA and NNS, Audit reports and financial documents with necessary information were taken into account. Routine information systems including DHIS, LHW-MIS and LMIS were also be a part of the review for their potential for updating and building linkages.