good visibility of the stock level’s reports submitted timely has the major factor to reduce the stock-out conditions in the health facility [15] Health system delivery systems like, Philippines, constantly challenged by the disasters and emergencies where existing laws, national policies and regulations covers critical aspects of medicines management including SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 71 quantification, warehousing, distribution, utilization monitoring and disposal of medicines even then due the lacking of the implementation is a hurdle in supply chain management of medicines. The additional supplies of medicines during the disasters increased the intensity of mismanagement [16]. Increasing the quantities of the medicines in the weak supply chain management of the medicines creates more SCM issues. It is necessary to improve the SCM hurdles and bottle necks for the batter access of medicines for patients in the health facilities. The Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) was developed by the WHO and UNICEF aimed to reduce childhood morbidity and mortality. In Tanzania it was introduces in 1996 and then expend to all districts of the country. The cross-sectional study with sample size of 95 healthcare workers described the improvement in the essential medicines supplies and monitoring of utilization has played a vital role in implementation of IMCI services [17]. It is necessary not only to improve the quantities of medicines but also the monitoring of rational utilization. Government of Punjab and Sindh has made many efforts to improve the access of medicines for patients, it is necessary to analyze the rational utilization of medicines. Access to medicines from health system perspective was studied by Alliance for Health Policy and System Research, World Health Organization. The study sates that the most health system strengthening interventions ignore the interconnections between system components specially the complex relationships between the essential medicines and health financing, HR, Health Information and health service delivery were not given sufficient considerations. Findings of the study recommend that the accesses to medicines barriers are complex and interconnected as they occur at multiple levels of health system. A holistic view of demand side constrains with multiple and dynamic relationship between medicines and other health system resources should be applied. It has mentioned that the determinants of access to medicines are in national, regional and international contexts. [18] The objectives of the consultancy will cover the aspects of National, Provincial, District and Sub-district levels of medicines supply chain management. The indicators