diarrhoea interventions Pneumonia Reduced household air pollution Antibiotics for pneumonia Vaccination (PCV, Hib, pertussis) Vaccination : rotavirus Los-osmolarity ORS, zinc & continued feeding Safe water & improved sanitation Diarrhoea Protect Treat Breastfeeding promotion & support Adequate complementary feeding Prevent Measles Vaccination Handwashing with soap Prevention of HIV Improved care seeking behaviour and referral Improved case management at community and health facility levels Continued feeding Vitamin A suplementation Oxygen therapy (where indicated) Source: Adapted PATH: Tackling the deadliest diseases for the world’s poorest children. Interventions that work Over the past 20 years, research into specific pneumonia and diarrhoea interventions has shown that the following interventions and activities work: • Promotion of exclusive breastfeeding reduces diarrhoea and pneumonia (23). • Use of vaccines against Streptococcus pneumoniae (Spn) and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib), the two most common bacterial causes of childhood pneumonia, and against rotavirus, the most common cause of childhood diarrhoea deaths, substantially reduces the disease burden and deaths caused by these infectious agents, as evidenced by countries that have introduced these vaccines (24, 25). • Use of vaccines against measles and pertussis in national immunization programmes substantially reduces pneumonia illness and death in children (26, 27). • Use of simple, standardized guidelines for the identification and treatment of pneumonia and diarrhoea in the community, at first-level health facilities and at referral hospitals substantially reduces child deaths (26, 27). • ORS, especially the low-osmolarity formula, is a proven, lifesaving tool in the treatment of children with diarrhoea. Use of zinc supplements with ORS to treat children with diarrhoea reduces deaths in children less than five years of age (29). • Innovative demand creation activities are important for achieving behaviour change and sustaining long-term preventive practices. • WASH interventions, including access to and use of safe drinking-water and sanitation, as well as promotion of key hygiene practices, provide health, economic and social benefits (31). • Reduction of household air pollution with improved stoves has been shown to reduce severe pneumonia. Safer and more efficient energy in the home prevents burns, saves time and fuel costs, and contributes to better development opportunities (32). Table 1 lists selected interventions and demonstrates evidence for their impact. However, the observed health impact depends on coverage and correct, consistent and sustained use. Furthermore, such interventions require communication and social mobilization strategies that inform and motivate healthy actions and create demand for services and behaviours essential to pneumonia