under 1122.” A facility in-charge from Sindh revealed, “We have an ambulance but, due to the shortage of fuel, it is on stand.” Almost all responses indicated that severe cases were referred to higher facilities due to lack of required expertise and inadequate equipment to deal with severe cases. A facility in-charge from Punjab described, “If we feel that the patient is not recovering & their condition is severe; displaying extreme symptoms like Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 82 low intake of food, continuous fever, breathing problems, we refer such patients to THQ, DHQ and Bahawalpur Victoria Hospital (BVH) in order for better treatment.” New Form of Medication Low osmolarity ORS seemed to be present in most health facilities with the incharges having sound knowledge of how to administer it during the patient’s treatment. A facility in-charge from Sindh verified, “Low osmolarity ORS is better than regular ORS. Low osmolarity ORS has good quantity of sodium, potassium etc. Yes, we have low osmolarity ORS at our facility.” However, there were also such health facilities that did not have low osmolarity ORS, supposedly due to the high cost. A facility in-charge from Punjab emphasized its benefits and higher costs, “Low osmolarity ORS is more beneficial than regular ORS because absorption is better in low osmolarity and it is more isotonic as compared to regular ORS. Low osmolarity ORS is not provided at our facility. The reason for non-provision of low osmolarity can be its higher price than regular ORS.” When facility in-charges discussed DTs and Zinc DT in particular, their availability, acceptability and practicality of usage emerged as major themes. These three factors were linked with each other as well as with the awareness about DTs as a form of medicine. Usage of DTs was mostly discussed in comparison with syrup. Facility in-charges shared varying responses regarding the awareness of DTs; some were familiar with them while Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 83 most of them hadn’t even heard of them. A comprehensive response about DTs came from a facility in-charge in Punjab while comparing syrup to DT; “Antibiotics are used in routine for the treatment of pneumonia…I have heard of antibiotics in DTs form. Syrup is a better option. Syrup is easily taken. DTs are not easy in use and have a bitter taste. But DTs are more effective. Such DTs are not available in the market. I don’t have