was making ORS more acceptable to caregivers who sought to reduce their child’s diarrhoea symptoms. In 2004, WHO and UNICEF began recommending that countries use and manufacture a new ORS formula (known as low-osmolarity ORS) to treat all types of diarrhoea among all age groups. This improved formula was shown to be as safe and effective as the previous version, but also had other important clinical beneﬁts. Stool output and vomiting decreased in children by about 20 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively, when compared to children using the original ORS formula. Unscheduled intravenous therapy also declined by 33 per cent among children with diarrhoea using this new remedy. Source: World Health Organization, The Treatment of Diarrhoea: A manual for physicians and other senior health workers, WHO, Geneva, 2005. BOX 6 Low-osmolarity ORS: A life-saving remedy just got better Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 16 prepared at home using readily available and low-cost ingredients. Examples of rehydrating ﬂuids include cereal-based drinks made from a thin gruel of rice, maize, potato or other readily available low-cost grain or root crop the family has at home. Breastmilk is also an excellent drink for ﬂuid replacement and should continue to be given to infants with diarrhoea simultaneously with other oral rehydration solutions. If ORS or other appropriate ﬂuids are not available, increased amounts of almost any ﬂuid could also help to prevent dehydration. Continuing to feed the child during the diarrhoea episode, while providing oral rehydration therapy, further supports the absorption of ﬂuids from the gut into the bloodstream to prevent dehydration. Children receiving food during the diarrhoea episode are also more likely to maintain their nutritional status and their ability to ﬁght infection. A recent and important development in diarrhoea treatment is the addition of zinc to the regimen. Box 7 details the added value of zinc in diarrhoea treatment, and its eﬀectiveness in reducing both the duration and severity of diarrhoea episodes as well as reducing stool volume and the need for advanced medical care. Children receiving zinc often have greater appetites and are more active during the diarrhoea episode; its use has also been associated with increased ORS uptake. The provision of zinc tablets by health workers may also reduce the demand from caregivers for other less eﬀective drugs, such as antibiotics and antidiarrhoeal medications, which should not be routinely administered. Zinc is