from diarrhea do not received any treatment of diarrhea (MICS 2014, Sindh). Punjab Public Health Sector Strategy (PPHSS) 2012-2020 stated that the public health facilities of Punjab have issues in supply chain, lack of quantification skills, procurement and budget issues, lack of storage spaces and delay supplies which results in frequent stock outs of essential medicines health facilities. The strategy has sets its goals to make sure that there must be periodic review of Essential Drug List (EDL) and system of essential medicines supplies should be improve at the level that there must be not stock out at BHU, RHC and SHC hospitals. Key performance indicators were also set for the inclusion of Zinc and pediatric formulation of amoxicillin in essential drug list of LHWs. The use of ORS and Zinc Supplementation was well accepted for the reduction of use of antibiotics. The interventions such as diarrhea pack through community health workers in community settings. The effectiveness of the provision of the diarrhea pack has been reported as effective that it should be scaled up at national level. [11] The study of Akbar Pardhan described that the Matiari district has sound implementation potential; however, bottlenecks at health care facility and at health care management level have badly constrained the implementation process. An interdependency exists among the constraining factors, such as lack of sound planning resulting in unclear understanding of the strategy; leading to ambiguous roles and responsibilities among stakeholders which manifest as inadequate availability of supplies and drugs at PHC facilities. Addressing these barriers is likely to have a cumulative effect on facilitating IMCI implementation. On the basis of these findings, we recommend that the provincial department of health and provincial Maternal Neonatal and Child Health (MNCH) program jointly assess the situation and streamline IMCI implementation in the district through sound planning, training, supervision, and logistic support. [12] “The Institutional Assessment of UNICEF Supply Division’s Forecasting SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 70 Process” described in its final report that the demand planning plays a critical role in ensuring that supplies reach the right place, at the right time, in the right quantity and at the right price. Mostly used forecasting procedures are the demand from the government (government request) which comes in the form of bulk orders which stretched the supply chain system. According to the UNICEF report the forecasting of medicines become important component to manage the smooth