cases, almost never; mainly due to lack of funds and a distinct lack of interest on the government’s part. Facility in-charge from Punjab reiterated this view, “There is no trend of refresher of such trainings…” Another facility in-charge from Punjab declared, “The main reasons for the lack of funding for such activities include no or poor planning and the fact that refresher trainings for human resources of relevant departments are not government’s priority.” A facility in-charge from Sindh shared about the long time lapse since his last training, “I got my last training about ARI problems 4-5 years ago, but still no refresher training has been conducted due to lack of funding.” 4.2.2.7 Protocols and Guidelines There seemed to be mixed responses about availability of protocols. Some facilities in-charges claimed that their facilities were fully equipped with charts and guidelines while others seemed to lack them entirely. There wasn’t any particular trend among provinces, or even districts; it seemed to vary on a facility-to-facility basis. Whether their facilities had access to protocols or not, all respondents conceded that protocols and guidelines were both useful and necessary to provide the best possible treatment to the patients. This was discussed by a facility in-charge from Sindh, “Such guidelines inform the diagnosis and treatment process, how to evaluate the severity and what procedure to follow for the treatment of such diseases etc.” A facility in-charge from Punjab explained about the availability and usefulness of such tools, 46 “Yes we have complete guidelines and protocols (like IMNCI guideline) ... These guidelines taught us how to diagnose, what are the sign and symptoms, how to treat and how and when to refer to a higher health facility. These guidelines/ protocols are up to mark and completely practical.” On the contrary, there were also facilities that did not have access to such standard guidelines. A facility incharge from Sindh described, “Guidelines or protocols about Pneumonia and Diarrhea are not available here… There is nothing about Diarrhea and Pneumonia in the shape of booklets or instructions (SOPs).” 4.2.3 Facility Management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia Access to equipment varied depending on which facility the respondent represented. Some facilities claimed they were well equipped to treat Pneumonia patients, and respondents even said they had the support of their designated higher-ups, stating that shortcomings were met with encouraging responses. A facility in-charge from Punjab supported this notion, “We don’t have