dismally low compared with global need. In Pakistan use of zinc supplement with ORS for treatment of diarrhea is very low as show in PDHS, 2013. Zinc Production Group indicates the prescribed amount of active ingredient in a single tablet or in a specified volume of an oral solution. Tablets may contain either 10 or 20 mg of zinc and the concentration of zinc in oral solutions may be 10mg/5mL. Decisions about the best strength to be used should depend on better adherence to treatment by patient, taking into consideration other issues as well, such as price, medicine delivery, and duration of treatment (10or 14-day treatment). Preferably, in any given country, only one strength of tablets or oral solution should be available to avoid dosing errors. If 10-mg zinc tablets are chosen, it will mean that older children will have to take two tablets each day; if 20-mg zinc tablets are chosen, it will mean that for younger infants only half a tablet will be given each day and therefore tablets will have to be scored to facilitate this. With oral solutions, because it is difficult to accurately measure half a teaspoon of solution, it is recommended that oral solution of zinc contain 10mg of elemental zinc per 5 mL, that is to say per one teaspoon. It means that infants below 6 months of age will receive one teaspoon, while older children will need 2 teaspoons of oral solution per day. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 27 ORS and Zinc Co-Packaging Promotion by USAID in Afghanistan In a 15 million dollar project, USAID collaborated with UNICEF and the Government of Afghanistan to increase the low coverage of Zinc and ORS treatment in the country. The project focused on capacity building of health workers, midwives, nurses and doctors at primary healthcare levels and increasing community access through the community health workers (USAID, 2016). At its completion the project had successfully procured and distributed one million Zinc and ORS co-packs, which were effectively distributed to one million under5 diarrhea patients. Over 250 healthcare workers and 3400 CHWs had also been trained. Additionally, flash cards and storybooks depicting management of diarrhea with Zinc and ORS were developed, pretested, revised, and printed under the supervision of the MoPH health promotion department (USAID, 2016). Further measures included revision of training modules for management of diarrhea with Zinc and ORS, development of Zinc and ORS