parents revealed that health facilities being nearer to their homes was the reason for visiting it. However, some parents had to go through the inconvenience of travelling a long way because they did not have a choice. A parent from Sindh explained, “Government medical facility is very far away from us. We don’t have any mode of transport for reaching the BHU.” Nonetheless, for some parents distance was irrelevant and quality of medical service was more important. Availability of the Doctor – Easy accessibility of doctors was one of the important factors for parents in selecting a medical facility for their children. A parent from Sindh asserted that how important availability of doctor was for him, “Treatment is free of cost here and pediatrician is also available in this hospital.” Another parent shared a similar view, “This hospital is nearby our home and the main thing is that the child specialist is always available in that hospital…” Many parents also complained that that accessibility of doctors and other medical services should be 24 hours. 62 Long Waiting Time – Long waiting time before seeing the doctor was a big cause of concern for majority of parents. Many expressed their frustration about crowded spaces and long waiting lines before getting medical care. A typical response of the parents was, “Peak rush hour sometimes creates problems because during that we have to wait long for our turn. We come here through public transport which adds to the problems.” Infrastructure & Support Facilities – Parents complained about the infrastructure and support facilities at the healthcare centers they attended. Lack of space, hygiene, clean drinking water and seating arrangement were commonly mentioned by parents. A parent from Punjab vented, “There is no proper sitting arrangement and clean water...” Another parent commented on congested space, “… one thing that creates problem during waiting is insufficient space.” Satisfaction with Information Provision – There were mixed reviews by parents on whether they were provided sufficient information about diagnosis and follow-up visits. Some parents were quite satisfied with their experiences, while some were utterly disappointed. Satisfied parents claimed that doctors conducted comprehensive check-ups, asked them to revisit for a follow-up examination and also encouraged to return in case of emergencies. A parent from Sindh reinforced this view, “Doctor advised us to visit after some days. He also asked to visit for routine checkup. In case of emergency, I