Health Secretaries of all the provinces and six (06) Technical Expert Members. The Authority is run by Chief Executive Officer and his team of fifteen (15) Directors. It has 13 divisions, including Pharmaceutical Evaluations and Registration, Medical Devices and Medical Cosmetic, Biological Drugs, Costing and Pricing, Legal Affairs, Drug Licensing, Quality Assurance and Quality Testing, Budget and Accounts and Health and OTC Products (non-drugs). 5.2.2 Registration Process According to the CEO DRAP, formulation of molecules of any new drug (whose generic is not already registered) coming to Pakistan must be registered first with Authorities of any one of 14 referral countries, selected on the 68 basis of possessing stringent regulatory framework and a strong legal system. These include USA, Australia, Japan, UK, Germany, Switzerland, Netherland, Norway, Austria and New Zealand. This is because the standard of clinical trials of these countries are most reliable and do not require repetition in Pakistan. Once approval is granted, such formulation is included in the pharmacopeia and companies importing such molecules later do not require re-registration. In compliance with the Drug Act 2012, a checklist for Scrutinization of Registration Application/Dossiers was developed by the Pharmaceutical Evaluation Cell within DRAP to evaluate registration applications. The Registration Board approved a Checklist (Form 5) containing 33 items in its 240th meeting, which is to be filled and submitted to DRAP by the pharmaceutical Company seeking registration of specific drug along with supporting data/documents, including proposed master formulation based on physiochemical characteristics of active and Inactive components of formulation. Along with above, the applicant (Production Manager and Director/Managing Director of the manufacturing company) has to give written undertaking counter signed by Quality Control Manager, to submit the following: • Stability Studies • Pharmaceutical Development Studies (Proposed Master Formulations, Rationale, physiochemical characteristics and detail of drug substance) • Validation of analytical testing methods • Process Validation The data and findings of stability testing are submitted to DRAP with application for inspection. This is discussed in the DRAP’s board and its inspection team visits the company to conduct onsite inspection for CRF 21 compliance and to verify results. After fulfillment of all the requirements, the drug in question is formerly accepted for registration. For the imported drugs, the registration process is essentially same accept for few additional requirements. The company has to meet following conditions before getting imported product registered in Pakistan for marketing, distribution and sales. It must have: