on updating and strengthening supply chain and logistics management systems to track the respective commodities. This was done to further supplement the planned work of the project. The commodity availability targets were developed to determine its success, and the results will be documented and disseminated as learning for contemporary in-country initiatives and long-term sustainability. The primary outcomes that are likely to be achieved through this project include the following: Outcome 1: Policy Change Existing national/provincial policies and guidelines are updated in line with global recommendations (WHO/ GAPPD) for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia; among children under five in Pakistan by the end of 2019. Outcome 2: Policy Translation Translation of the revised and updated Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment guidelines, into relevant action plans, by all provincial/areas health departments, in Pakistan by the end of 2019. Outcome 3: Policy Implementation Availability of essential commodities such as Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, co-packed ORS and Zinc suspension, oxygen, ARI timers, and pulse oximeters. It was required for the treatment of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Pakistan by the end of 2019. Outcome 4: Knowledge Management Translation of lessons learned from this investment, to other settings/broader geographical areas within Pakistan. This four year Project has completed its first six months inception phase (Jan-June2016). The implementation activities for this project are planned for the remaining period of 2016 and onward. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 17 2.2 Country background The Islamic Republic of Pakistan consists of Punjab, Sindh, Baluchistan, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK), and the territories including FATA and province of Gilgit-Baltistan. The total land area of Pakistan is 796,095 km with an estimated population of 207.8 million2. Approximately 64% of the population lives in rural areas (Economic survey of Pakistan, 2013-14, Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 2012-13) The country is a lower-middle income country with a GDP of US $ 1,368 per capita (Pakistan Economic Survey 2013-14). 2.3 Purpose Pakistan has the third largest rate of maternal, fetal, and child mortality in the world3. As of 2010, the mortality rate of children under five (U5) is 89 deaths per 1,000 live births. This explains that one of the 11 Pakistani children does not survive to his fifth birthday. Acute respiratory infections (ARIs) and dehydration caused by severe Diarrhea are major causes of childhood mortality in Pakistan. Every year, approximately 91,000 children die from Pneumonia and 53,300 children death is