and pulse oximeters. Majority of the LHWs in the intervention districts of Sindh and Punjab were equipped with ARI Timers. ARI Timers were functional and available at health houses in Jacobabad, Tharparkar and Bahawalnagar. Some of the LHWs reported non-functional ARI Timers and limitation of knowledge on their usage. LHWs from Punjab exclaimed, “ We have little knowledge on how to use this device accurately so it becomes quiet challenging while checking for signs and symptoms of Pneumonia in a sick child.” Trainings relating to accurate usage of ARI Timers and its benefits can help to improve knowledge, skills and performance of these Lady Health Workers. This in turn, will result in early and accurate management of Acute Respiratory Tract Infections among infants under five years of age. Finding: Provision of ARI timers has empowered LHWs and improved their ability to manage Pneumonia. Female empowerment and gender equality has also been promoted through this project. LHS and LHWs role to provide curative Pneumonia and Diarrhea services in the community elevates their status as a productive member in the community. Since the project involves provision of commodities including gadgets like ARI timers to LHWs, the project is equipping the females in the community and empowering them to perform better. However, there was a consensus among these community workers on the lack of trainings and refresher trainings. One of them claimed, “Since we aren’t specialists, we need to be trained regularly in order to perform our duties.” ARI timer is a new piece of equipment for these community workers and they demanded being taught how to effectively use it. One LHW, insisted, “We all don’t know how to use ARI timer, so it is quite challenging to check or deal with a Pneumonia patient.” Maintenance and replacement of out of order ARI timers was another problematic area. An LHW from Karachi Malir explained, “My ARI timer is out of order and not working properly, I have asked for a new one but still no response.” LHWs agreed on the usefulness of the ARI timers and at the same time highlighted the need for trainings on their use and their maintenance. Finding: The project has contributed in building ownership of provincial governments of its interventions. The project has certainly made the DOH at provincial levels more conscious and involved in the management of these childhood illnesses. However, there is still room for further