the right quantity and at the right price. Mostly used forecasting procedures are the demand from the government (government request) which comes in the form of bulk orders which stretched the supply chain system. According to the UNICEF report the forecasting of medicines become important component to manage the smooth supply chain operations. The forecasting at government level should be with sufficient timelines to support other SCM operations. The USAID funded Deliver Project “Supply Chain Evolution” described the framework of the Supply Chain Strengthening of Developing countries Public Health Sector. The project report described that the development and improvement in the supply chain management system of the public sector of developing country it is necessary to describe the existing level of the supply chain management system which ranges from “ad hoc level” to “extended level”. In extended level of supply chain management system the extended stages, health system managers increasingly understand how their system operates, ways to use resources more efficiently, how to manage and align supply chain actors to achieve common goals, and, ultimately, ways to interact more effectively with the broader environment in which the supply chain is situated. In Pakistan there is considerable work has been done for the policy legislation and regulation of medicines. Access of medicines is included the policy and regulation but still there are gaps that exist in policy and practices. These gaps are due to weak implementation and lack of monitoring procedures. It has also observed that one of the reasons of the lack of implementation on the policies is government traditional tilt of policies towards punitive actions rather than cooption of other stakeholders towards practitioner’s regulation [8] and it has also been observed in the recent drug act given by the Punjab government. In pharmaceutical market of Pakistan commercial sector is considered as more active in terms of drug information rather than public sectors. It has been observed that on request of the doctors about the drug information from mix of 45 multinational and local companies only 26% letters has been received out of which only 15% met the WHO criteria for optimal drug information center [hafeez and mirza 1999]. The reporting mechanism of Adverse Drug Reactions (ADR) is considerably week. There are many parameters due to which the reporting of the ARD is not sufficient to support promote the drug information. Even in some studies it has been observed that