Understanding (MoU) should be developed among stakeholders for daily data sharing interface between LMIS & revised DHIS. 2. During the consultation with the stakeholders, key performance indicators should be finalized and should be regularly monitored. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 12 3. In integrated LMIS and DHIS, STG should be incorporated to develop an automated morbidity based method for medicines forecasting. 4. The process of registration of Amoxicillin DT and Co-packing of Lo-ORS and Zinc DT with DRAP should be considered according to the provisions of law; as stated in 2.(v) and 2.(ix). 1.7.3 Long term Recommendations 1. The software like “Prescription management Information System” has advantages over inventory management system but it should be modified and upgraded to computerized physician order entry software (CPOES) approach. 2. Considering the number of outpatients or services delivered from RHC, pharmacist should be provided for pharmaceutical activities. 3. The capacity of warehouses and technical knowledge of staff should be improved. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 13 02 INTRODUCTION SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 16 INTRODUCTION 02 2.1 Background UNICEF and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation established a partnership, to contribute to increase child survival in Pakistan. This goal was achieved by improving the diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children less than 5 years of age. The Project “Accelerating policy change, translation and implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities in Pakistan”, aimed to implement the policies to ensure sustainable changes. The M.G. Foundation worked with close coordination with the Government of Pakistan and the relevant stakeholders. It had an overarching goal to ensure that relevant national policies are revised, understood, and adhered to in order to ensure quality treatment and availability of the essential commodities for improving management of childhood Diarrhea and Pneumonia and increasing child survival by the end of 2019. The project also focused on incorporating Pneumonia and Diarrhea management commodities into essential medicines lists and advocates for increased resource allocation for commodities; it also catalyzed the initial stages of the commodities procurement process with the government authorities and pharmaceutical manufacturing stakeholders. Moreover, the Foundation concentrated on updating and strengthening supply chain and logistics management systems to track the respective commodities. This was done to further supplement the planned work of the project. The commodity availability targets were developed to determine its success, and the results will be documented and disseminated as learning for contemporary in-country