key informant interviews with 44 health providers: 1. Not all health providers have clear understanding of standard treatment guidelines, 2. Most of the BHUs and RHCs do not have ARI Timer or Pulse Oximeter, 3. Only PPHI managed BHUs in Sindh had stock of co-packaged ORS and Zinc, and 4. In a number of cases, the health practitioners prescribed an anti-biotic together with ORS for treatment of diarrhoea. 3.2.2. Stocks of commodities Interviews and physical checking in 44 health facilities and 5 warehouses (Table 17 and Table 18) in Punjab and Sindh revealed that, with some exceptions, all the health facilities had ORS in stock. During the visits, it was communicated by the representatives of the health facilities that ample stocks were available for the past 2 to 3 years. There were however, certain health facilities where Zinc and Amoxicillin was found to be out of stock. It was noted both in Sindh and Punjab that in a number of cases the lady health workers (LHWs) did not have stocks of ORS and Zinc for the past few months. 11 During our interactions with the officials of health departments in Balochistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and FATA, it was noted that stocks outs do occur in their health facilities of the three commodities ORS, Zinc and Amoxicillin. 3.2.3. Current funding commitments As per the data collected from various governments, the total government funding in 201516 on purchase of commodities for treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia arrive at Rs.766 million. Including direct and indirect costs the total funding was Rs.828 million. Table 2: Current funding commitments by the Government 3.2.4. Existing budget forecasting method During key informant interviews with 44 health service providers, it was noted that: • To demand budget, the consumption basis of forecasting the requirements of commodities is used. A certain percentage is added to the previous year’s consumption quantities to arrive at the next year’s forecast. • The budget demanded is sent to the provincial departments of health where it is rationalised (often downward revision is applied). In addition, the Finance Departments also apply downward revision keeping in view resource requirements. • Generally, DHIS data for morbidity is not used for estimating budget required for the next year. While collecting data, it was noted that data of procurements was available with different organisations. There was an absence of central register that would specify the following on period basis; •