child health services, particularly diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • Are sufficient amount of antipyretics, antibiotics (particularly Amoxicillin), ORS and Zinc are provided to the LHWs? • In what formulation are these commodities usually provided? Probe for DT? • What are the common reasons for stock-outs of these commodities? • Are any specific equipment, like ARI timers, provided to the LHWs for better managing the cases of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • In your opinion, how can the uninterrupted supply of these commodities be ensured for LHWs? 07. Can you throw some light on LHW-MIS? • What do you think about the sufficiency of LHW-MIS tools for recording and reporting regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • Do these reports provide adequate cover and indicate the shortage of commodities? • Have you made any decisions regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea on the basis of the reports generated at district level? Kindly give some examples. • How can the recording and reporting of LHWs’ services be improved? 11. ANNEX 168 08. What are your in built mechanisms for monitoring and supervision of LHWs? • What is the current supervision policy? At which level responsibility of supervision is fixed? • Is the supervision integrated or service specific e.g. for EPI, CMWs, LHWs, etc.? • What is the role of Lady Health Supervisor regarding supervision and ensuring uninterrupted supply of commodities for LHWs? • Is there any notified district schedule for supervisory visits to the community-based workers? • What are your suggestions to improve the monitoring and supervision of child health services in your district? 09. What do you think about the integration of the LHWs with other health programs, local community, key persons, Community Based Organizations (CBOs) or elected representatives? • What is the level integration of LHWs, LHS and CMWs in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children? • What role do they play for acceptance of health services provided by LHWs? Kindly give some examples about the support they support. • What is usefulness of local community liaison? 10. What is your overall impression about the scope and scale of Pneumonia and Diarrhea case management by the LHWs (diagnosis, treatment and referral services) in your district? • If you are asked to take measures for improvement of Pneumonia and Diarrhea case management services by LHWs, what measures will you suggest at managerial, facility and community level? REVISITING INTERVIEW