and embed critical partners in the overall work plan/approach: involve other programmes and sectors; involve the private sector and nongovernmental organizations; engage the United Nations agencies and development partners. • Other actions: promote innovations, especially for overcoming barriers to service delivery; generate demand and ensure supply; focus on implementation research and identify optimal modes of delivery of existing interventions in order to reach those most in need. The targets in the integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea will not be achieved without urgent action in the areas listed above from national governments as well as supporting partners at the global level. Focused, coordinated and integrated international, national and sub-national action on pneumonia and diarrhoea control is needed to continue sustaining and increasing the gains in the reduction of child mortality. This document calls on all concerned groups to demonstrate their commitment, allocate the required resources, and work together to make preventable child deaths due to pneumonia and diarrhoea a tragedy of the past. 8 9 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) The integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) Ending two major preventable causes of child death The integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) proposes a cohesive approach to ending preventable pneumonia and diarrhoea deaths. It brings together critical services and interventions to create healthy environments, promotes practices known to protect children from disease, and ensures that every child has access to proven and appropriate preventive and treatment measures. Reaching every child will require the scaling up and targeting of interventions known to prevent and control pneumonia and diarrhoea. This will be achieved through coordinated and collaborative child health and related programmes. Parents, communities, community health workers (CHWs), civil society and the private sector all have significant roles in enabling this vision. Clear goals and coverage targets for reducing morbidity and mortality due to pneumonia and diarrhoea have been set from now until 2015 within the context of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Though significant progress has been made towards these goals, much more can still be achieved through accelerated action between now until 2015, and beyond. The United Nations Global Strategy for Women’s and Children’s Health (1), launched in 2010, calls for a continuum of care approach to