for managing and using the logistics management information system, forecasting, procurement, inventory management and distribution. The selection of product was in consultation with the Districts. It was also responsible for the supervision and development of logistics staff. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 37 ■ Although, at the provincial level, the activities were facilitated by specific units, for the procurement of the medicines; like: Procurement cell / Procurement Committee in all provinces and Medicines Coordination Cell like the one in KP. The key logistics tasks were assigned to either of it. The activities used to coordinate key logistics tasks among those responsible for logistics were official letters, meeting and joint work plans etc. ■ Such staff members (who are employed for other departments and had other departmental responsibilities as well) had to perform logistics tasks. It was observed, that the system lacks the dedicated HR, to carry out key logistics task with powers and authority and make prompt decisions. The logistics activities could be best performed by a qualified person with pharmaceutical as well as SCM knowledge. The DHQs hospitals, were facilitated with the sufficient number of Pharmacists. It was, therefore, observed that the logistics system was better at DHQs as compared to the hospitals like RHCs, where the pharmacist was not available. The vertical programs have dedicated logisticians but SCM tasks were not achieved. It was observed that Standard Operating Procedures were also not available at all service delivery levels. The logistics system has one year plan in all provinces. The smooth functioning of the supply chain system was affected by transporters strikes, resulting in the delays of supplies from manufacturers and eventually, it led to the delay in the budget release. Sindh: LMU was available at provincial level but it was not integrated as in Punjab. It was fully responsible for managing and using LMIS, procurement, inventory management, product selection, supervision and logistics staff development. The product selection and forecasting were mainly done at district level under the supervision of DHOs. A single line budget was available with DHO and some HF who could exercise DDO authority. . They are capable of managing their logistics budget from it. Health facilities with DDO power also have single line budget. ■ SoP or guidelines for medicines forecasting and quantifications were not provided at the district levels. ■ The Central Level Position, dedicated for logistics is mainly in the district. The