compiled at the district level and then the data takes the form of Provincial MIS. This information is later shared with the main stakeholders. 4.1.5.3 Validity and Reliability of Data Managers almost at every level of the system stressed the need of a reliable information system for effective decision-making. A leading paediatrician noted: “We don’t have reliable statistics on Pneumonia and Diarrhea and so it becomes very difficult to respond to these diseases at systems level.” Provincial experts expressed serious reservations regarding the validity and reliability of data in DHIS and MIS of LHWs. According to the managers in Sindh, LQAS is not routinely done which results in the decline of data quality. However, the managers in Punjab revealed that the GoPunjab is preparing a ‘Data Validation Manual’ for improving the quality of data. 4.1.5.4 Analysis and Data Utilization According to the managers in both the provinces, data has rarely been used as evidence in policymaking and service delivery. One senior district health official from Punjab expressed the need of regular feedback on DHIS data. The main reason behind the problem turned out to be the lack of dedicated staff for data analysis including epidemiologists at the district and provincial level. 4.1.6 IMNCI Guidelines and Training Lack of adequate human resources was found out to be a main barrier in the effective management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. A provincial manager from Punjab stated, “To provide optimum services, a 100% increase is required in the existing pool of sanctioned posts for nearly all cadres to meet international standard of patient doctor and nurse patient ratio.” Health managers from Sindh told that recently a shortened version (6 days) of IMNCI trainings has started. The trainings in Sindh highlighted the importance of the usage of Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT and low osmolarity ORS in the management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Furthermore, WHO has abridged and updated the in-service IMNCI training manual and soon the pre-service and community components will be updated as well. Also, 3-days trainings of community workers on the use of use Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT, Low Osmolarity ORS and ARI Timer will soon be initiated under accelerated action plan (AAP). It was found out that UNICEF has already pledged to support these. Furthermore, it was found out that in Sindh province, PPA is playing a very proactive role in engaging the private sector and raising awareness about the topics relevant