from Sindh reflected, “Mostly people are aware of these fatal diseases. Mostly people try to get cured through self-medication. If they fail, then they head towards health facilities.” However, a facility in-charge from Sindh had a different perspective on self-treatment and assumed it could lead to adverse health effects, further aggravating the condition of the patients. According to him, “Severe diarrhea and pneumonia is caused by the self-medication. About 30% people took tablets from market and assumed them to be appropriate for cure.” Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 75 Quack Doctors – Quack doctors also seemed to be largely preferred by the communities and according to facility in-charges, they were consulted before seeking treatment at the local health facilities. A facility in-charge from Punjab specified that “There are mixed approaches adopted for the cure of illnesses. People first consult quacks for such purposes and if there is no relief then they visit RHC.” Allopathic Treatment – There were also some respondents who deemed allopathic treatment as the most preferred form of treatment in their area. A facility incharge from Punjab stated, “In my catchment area, common approach adopted for the treatment of such diseases is allopathic.” A facility in-charge from Sindh expounded, “Allopathic is the preferred treatment of such diseases in my catchment area. 40% of patients initially try to get cured through selfmedication methods and in case of failure, rush towards public health facilities.” Trainings Almost all factors related to trainings were affected by lack of funding. This section outlines the themes that emerged regarding the training of facility in-charges. Lack of Funding General resentment prevailed regarding the amount of funds allocated for conducting trainings. Lack of trainings was associated with shortage of funds. With regard to lack of trainings, a facility in-charge from Sindh believed, “… I feel it is only due lack of funds. Health department arranges for such trainings, but Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 76 sometimes pharmaceutical companies organize them …there are many flaws in such trainings.” Training Needs All facility in-charges unanimously agreed that there is a substantial need for trainings and they would definitely benefit the facility and its workers, which would in turn prove beneficial for the entire community. Facility in-charges believed that there was not only a need for training staff in treating these diseases but also for inventory management including forecasting and quantification of the medicines. A facility incharge from