(see Annex 2), sensitized to local cultural settings and shared with UNICEF team for any possible feedback. Subsequently they were also pretested in relevant field setting and further revised. Pretesting facilitated in determining any possible problems faced in data collection including contextual interpretations and time management for administering tools. Tools were finally translated into Urdu which was the local language. Observation checklists, interviews (structured and semi-structured) and focus group discussions aimed at ascertaining the availability of Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities, skills and competence of the providers, and capabilities of overall healthcare system. These tools ultimately guided the development of a joint accountability framework to ensure the access to commodities by both public and private sector service providers. Interviews, consultative sessions and FGD guides were translated into Urdu and pretested to ensure clarity and coherence. Subsequently guides were adjusted according to the feedback drawn from the pre-test exercise and provided to the field teams after finalisation. For secondary research, existing child survival policies, strategies and guidelines related to Pneumonia and Diarrhea were reviewed at global, national and local levels to provide a background of the current scenario. This provided a foundation to draw comparisons and identify gaps in commodity access and policy translation in the public and private sectors. 3.5 GEOGRAPHIC FOCUS The geographic scope of this study, as defined by UNICEF team, only included the provinces of Punjab and Sindh at district level. However in an attempt to paint a more holistic national picture, general overviews of current scenarios of policy and management surrounding Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Baluchistan and KP have been provided at provincial level. Thus the main focus was on Federal level as well as provinces of Punjab and Sindh. Qualitative assessment was conducted in national and provincial capitals; Quetta and Peshawar in Baluchistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa respectively. Tharparkar, Shikarpur, and Tando Muhammad Khan were the three priority districts Sindh while Pakpattan and Bahawalnagar were the chosen ones in Punjab. Initially one of the districts to be focused in Punjab was DG Khan, however NOC could not be obtained to conduct research there, hence it was replaced with Pakpattan. 3.6 SAMPLE COMPOSITION The study sample comprised of professionals at policy and strategy development level (representatives from Federal ministry, provincial and district health departments; health sector reform units; IRMNCH/MNCH; donors and development partners); district managers (CEO District Health Authority in Punjab, District Health Officers (DHO) in Sindh, DHIS