and communities (61). Such conditions facilitate the transmission of disease, notably pneumonia and diarrhoea, and drive up child mortality. While urban areas are home to the majority of modern health facilities, many urban children are deprived of even rudimentary services. Lower levels of immunization and/or pockets of under-vaccinated children (including those in higher coverage areas) lead to more frequent outbreaks of vaccine-preventable diseases in communities that are already more vulnerable. These areas are often at high risk for disasters. Without sufficient access to safe drinking-water or an adequate water supply for basic hygiene, children’s health suffers. Use of polluting household fuels remains common in urban areas and results in exposure which compounds that from the already high levels of urban air pollution in many developing countries. It also makes a significant contribution to ambient air pollution (62). An integrated approach to interventions and crosssectoral collaboration Traditionally, activities aimed at improving child health have been run as vertical programmes, each in their own “silo” with separate staff, budgets, planning, training, supervision, etc. While in some cases, this focused approach can lead to significant progress, programmes run in this way often use more resources, while not necessarily delivering quality child health care. Moving away from such “siloed” approaches, toward more coordinated and collaborative efforts will allow for cost savings while also increasing the impact of interventions. Such efforts should not only involve the health sector, but also promote better linkages with other sectors. Understanding risks and context, and considering realistic and achievable convergent points between interventions to enable quality and integrity for each is vital. For example, consider “integrated logistics”, “integrated service delivery”, and/or “integrated outreach”. Efforts to comprehensively reduce childhood deaths associated with pneumonia and diarrhoea have shown that integrated delivery of interventions is possible and advantageous. For example, in Malawi, combining the provision of hygiene kits with antenatal care (ANC) resulted in a nearly 30-fold increase in household water treatment practices 3 years after the intervention (63). It also achieved a 15% increase in health facility deliveries and postnatal checkups (64), both indicators of improved child and maternal health (see Boxes 3 and 4 for further examples of cross-sectoral collaboration.). Box 3. Sanitation and household water treatment as a focus point for cross-sectoral collaboration Sanitation is often considered ‘another sector’, but in many countries it falls under the remit of the MoH. In several countries, the MoH is involved in