by choice without being referred or influenced by doctors from such public sector health facilities.” Another pharmacy in-charge from Punjab verified, “Neither private nor government health facility refer patients for procuring medicines to us, although we usually offer discounts as well.” Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 104 A few Pharmacy in-charges mentioned the significance of the pharmacy’s location and how it affected the customers’ preference and purchasing behavior. A pharmacy incharge from Sindh explained, “There is a hospital right opposite the medical store. The patients directly go to that medical store from hospital.” A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab elaborated why he didn’t receive many prescriptions, “the reason for not receiving prescriptions from such public health facilities is location of my medical store, it is situated the rural area away from the nearby BHU.” Summary of Perspective of Pharmacy In-charges • GPs kept financial gains in consideration while prescribing medicines • Placing orders for medicines was dependent upon demand, price, quality, side effects it had and the season • Willing to keep Zinc DTs in stores if there was a demand • Choosing DT would depend on the doctor’s prescription, cost-effectiveness and its taste/smell • Suggested creating awareness for zinc DTs through providing free samples • Location of a pharmacy near a hospital provided an edge from a commercial point of view • government should play its role in quality control and logistics of the medicines • For DT, the word TABLET did not generate favourable reviews. It was spontaneously perceived as a substance hard for children to swallow, hence unsuitable Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 105 Perceptions of Lady Health Workers This section is a discourse on the major overarching themes that emerged from the focus group discussions held with lady health workers (LHWs). They were conducted in 5 districts; 2 in Punjab and 3 in Sindh. It mainly highlights how they operate, their challenges and general suggestions for improvement. The LHWs covered around 130-200 households, all of them located in the catchment area nearby the LHWs residence. Each worker was allocated their own region, easily accessible to them, and a few LHWs reported being assigned additional area to cover. The women were not expected to venture outside these bounds, except during additional activities like Polio campaigns, during which, the state bore the transportation expenses. Treating Diarrhea and Pneumonia Diarrhea presented itself as a problem throughout, with approximately 6-8 reported