all products for government-run programmes). Planned deliveries are based on convenient transportation circuits and efficient route planning (including supervision and service delivery). Source: Adapted from http://www.who.int/immunization_delivery/optimize/ background/en/index1.html, accessed 20 September 2012. Box 9. Opportunities to integrate GAPPD with global initiatives on achieving universal access to clean and safe household energy Globally, nearly 3 billion people still use inefficient and highly polluting solid fuels and simple stoves for cooking and heating, while 1.3 billion lack access to electricity. Recognition of the implications of this energy poverty on health, economic development and the climate (including climate change) has led to the United Nations’ ambitious SEFA initiative, launched in 2012. With targets for universal access by 2030 to electricity and modern household energy systems for cooking and heating, this initiative is now a focus for many other international programmes and country actions on improving access to clean, safe household energy. One such example is the United Nations Foundation’s (UNF) Alliance for Clean Cookstoves, which was established in 2010 to harness the resources and innovation of the public and private sectors. Specific activities, resources and support that can contribute to meeting the GAPPD objectives include: WHO Household energy database This database holds nationally representative data on fuel types used for cooking derived from 586 surveys for 155 countries. It includes 97% of all lowand middle-income countries and covers the period from 1974 to the present. Regularly updated and now being expanded to include data on heating and lighting, it has served as the basis for the SEFA baseline report (in preparation) and the calculation of disease burden, among other purposes. It can also make an important contribution to national situation assessment and monitoring. New WHO Indoor air quality guidelines for household fuel combustion Due for publication during 2013, these guidelines will provide key information for decision-making on interventions for reducing HAP and preventing associated diseases, including pneumonia, and will also contain evidence and general guidance for implementation. International standards for cookstoves These standards were published for the first time in 2012. Based on an international workshop agreement, the multitiered standards cover emission rates as well as rates for estimating indoor air quality, fuel efficiency and safety, and are being backed up by investment in regional testing centres. Monitoring and evaluation strategy WHO is working with the World Bank and other SEFA partners to develop a multi-tiered monitoring framework. This will serve as a basis