the highest percentage in the public sector. 5) Inventory control: The inventory control procedures of SH&ME hospitals i.e. DHQs of Punjab has shown better results of assessment that is 92%. It was mainly due to the development and implementation of medicines Inventory management software. The situation of the districts in Punjab was also better; due to the introduction of e-procurement system. 6) IRMNCH & NP: IRMNCH & NP has totally changed the routine method of medicines distribution. They had outsourced the transportation process of medicines to a courier company. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 32 Comparison of Logistics Systems among Districts in Sindh Graph 2: Comparison of Logistics System of P&SHD among districts of Punjab Comparison of Logistics Systems among Districts of Punjab Graph 1: Comparison of Logistics System of Department of health among Districts of Sindh SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 33 Graph 3: Comparison of logistics system of DHQ hospitals of Sindh and Punjab Comparison of Logistics Systems among Districts of Punjab Graph 4: Comparison of logistics system between NP FP&PHS and IRMNCH&NP Comparison of Logistics System of DHQ Hospitals of Punjab and Sindh SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 34 Graph 5: Logistics System of Baluchistan, KP and FATA Logistics System of Baluchistan, KP and FATA 4.1 Drug Registration Process for local production Diarrhea and Pneumonia are major causes of mortality among children under five in Pakistan. The availability of first line therapy, is one of the major challenges to the management of such diseases. Pharmaceutical industry is one of the growing industries of Pakistan. The medicine essential for the management of these diseases are i. Low osmolarity ORS already registered and frequent in production. ii. Zinc Dispersible Tablet already registered but not frequent in commercial market iii. Amoxicillin Dispersible tablet not registered in Pakistan iv. Co-packing of Low osmolarity ORS and Zinc Tablet not registered in Pakistan. The production of Lo-ORS and Zinc DT is easily available, while the drugs like, amoxicillin DT and Co-packaging, required registration with Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP) for local production. Any manufacturing industry having capacity to manufacture “tablet” and “powder” can apply for the registration of co-pack. Drug Act 1976, regulates the import, manufacture, storage distribution and sale of the drugs. These drugs are registered under section 7 of drug act 1976. Registration board is the authority of registration of drug. It was observed that period of