policy and strategy level .Our findings suggest us that a great number of the stakeholders and the decision makers at the policy level are either not aware of the updated global recommendations or they need to be convinced about the efforts required to install the required change. The role of the Child Survival Groups needs to be more assertive as a coordination forum, which provides the necessary impetus required for the necessary policy change. It is very important that the Child Survival groups take the ownership of the process and the government is on board to install the required changes at the policy, strategy and planning level. Furthermore, it is important that a coordination mechanism creates linkages between the different child survival groups of Pakistan. It is therefore critically important to establish a Child Survival group at the Federal level. Child Survival Groups are headed by the Director Generals of Health in both the provinces, which so far has served as a great facilitator. However, it is important that the Child survival groups should have some representation from the health secretariat as well. Child Survival group in Punjab has made considerable progress when it comes to taking the ownership of the progress. Resultantly, Punjab has already included the updated commodities in the essential medicine list and the changes required in the Information system at primary and secondarily level have been accorded approvals through the forum of the Child Survival group. Similarly, in the absence of updated IMNCI guidelines, Punjab government has finalized a makeshift training manual for LHWs to include the updated commodities. Sindh has also made significant progress updating the commodities in the essential medicine lists and in the health information systems at the primary and secondary level. Sindh has made some significant progress regarding the child survival. One particularly glaring example is the draft of the Child Survival strategy. This strategy puts the required emphasis on the child survival. Furthermore, Sindh has been able to include the updated commodities in the essential medicine list. However, at the Federal level the national essential medicine list needs to be updated. Similarly, IMNCI Guidelines need to be updated with the GAPPD recommendations for the management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Once the guidelines for the IMNCI put emphasis on the recommended commodities, it will help to change the prescribing behaviour in both the public and private sector. Furthermore, it is important that