a faster rate than among the better-off (56). Policy issues will need to be resolved in order to remove barriers to scaling up. These include empowering communitylevel workers to manage pneumonia with antibiotics as well as use zinc in diarrhoea case management; improving outreach and service linkages with communities to raise immunization coverage; and considering use of new vaccine delivery devices or use of more heatstable vaccines. Health systems strengthening initiatives may highlight other policy issues hindering implementation and help to resolve them. Key building blocks of health system strengthening include health workers, health financing, facilities and drugs, information systems and planning. • Apply lessons from other integrated disease prevention and control efforts Many countries have gained considerable experience from using integrated approaches to implement interventions such as IMCI. Large-scale cholera outbreaks, such as those in Nepal and the United Republic of Tanzania, have helped to institutionalize collaborative groupings and change policies and programmes to apply protection, prevention and treatment interventions. Lessons learned from these experiences can be applied to pneumonia and diarrhoea control. • Track execution and progress A national working group should measure progress on pneumonia and diarrhoea control. Key indicators should be incorporated into district and national surveillance systems, and data collection should be strengthened to lessen reliance on survey data. Data collected by CHWs should also be incorporated into this system. There should be a process in place that facilitates the use of such information to modify the national plan; to adapt advocacy, communications and resource mobilization efforts; and to engage with relevant WASH and clean air actors. The national pneumonia and diarrhoea plan should contain locally-appropriate goals and targets. It should also include indicators for measuring whether the targets are being reached, as well as strategies for making needed data available. Available data sources: Epidemiological and programmatic data is normally collected through the national health information system and through periodic surveys, such as the DHS and the MICS. The MICS also collects information on environmental risks to health as well as disease surveillance and early warning systems for epidemic-prone diseases (e.g. the Integrated Disease Surveillance and Response system in Africa). Data on household energy use are compiled, updated and reported annually by WHO. In addition, the JMP provides comprehensive reports every two years on access to water and sanitation supplies with sub-analyses on access according to location (rural/urban) and wealth quintile. Opportunities exist for linking