of Information Systems The project supported the revision and enhancement of DHIS tools with inclusion of new indicators as well as the GAPPD recommendations, like updated commodities for management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and indicators on safe drinking water, exclusive breast feeding and new vaccines. Furthermore, MIS of LHWs were updated to reflect the new commodities. Midterm Evaluation Report 40 This change facilitated the report on stock outs of Amoxicillin DT and Zinc DT to the district and provincial managers. Sindh has upgraded and revised DHIS tools and procedure manual. New draft of DHIS tolls, includes indicators about availability of Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT and Low osmolarity ORS in the stock available at the facility. Section 12-A of DHIS includes Amoxicillin and Zinc DTs in the section of stock out reports. ARI Timers, Pulse Oximeter, ARI Timer and availability of Oxygen have been added in the section of stock out report. It also has a provision of entering OPD data for Diarrhea and dysentery separately for under 5 children (previously there was provision for entry of combined data only). Moreover, an age slot has been added to differentiate data of neonatal deaths from infant and U5 deaths. UNICEF has supported the printing of materials. All the GAPPD recommendations have been included in the updated DHIS tools. The revision of DHIS was not limited to the Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities as the project leveraged the opportunity to update other MNCH related indicators including information on new vaccines and maternal health. A Provincial Manager, while highlighting the significance of updated DHIS tools, stated; “Previously OPD data for diarrhea and dysentery were reported together. The updated DHIS has the provision of entering OPD data for Diarrhea and dysentery separately for under 5 children an age slot has been added to differentiate data of neonatal deaths from infant and U5 deaths.” Considering the significant role of MIS system in combating mortality and morbidity due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Punjab, a new PC-1 is being developed for up-grading DHIS through technical support of UNICEF. In addition to development of PC-1, the project has committed support for upgrading the software (one time support). The updated information system – DHIS-2 – will have mechanism to collect and disseminate data of disease prevalence on daily basis and generate alert for any suspected disease outbreak/epidemic to ensure timely response. It will further have provision for data sharing at