Punjab emphasized this need, “… people should also have some awareness about usage and usefulness of such medicine...medical reps should suggest pharmaceutical companies to make such medicine in DTs given their usefulness in treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea.” Such awareness would also be beneficial for over the counter sales. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab assumed that over counter sale of DTs would rise, if their prescriptions increase. Syrup versus DT – A general inclination among pharmacy in-charges was towards the syrup. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab communicated that, “As per our experience, patients prefer syrup over dispersible tablet form...” However, there were many factors that effected this decision making process of the customers according to the pharmacy in-charges. Faith in the Doctor – Most of the pharmacy in-charges were of the opinion that customers did not have any particular preference for syrup or DT. They believed that the clients were not well informed or well educated to make a decision on their own and blindly followed whatever was prescribed by the doctor. A pharmacy incharge from Punjab mentioned, “Client has no say or awareness regarding the medicine, they go with the form that is prescribed.” A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh said, “…We follow whatever is mentioned on doctor’s prescription.” Cost-Effectiveness – Upon asking Pharmacy in-charges about the relative popularity of the syrup and DTs, they expressed that cost effectiveness would serve as one of the determining factors. While talking in the context, a pharmacy in-charge from Sindh mentioned, “… sale of DT form will be relatively more and less costly than the syrup.” Similarly a pharmacy in-charge from Punjab was of the opinion that “… the main determining factor for patients to buy medicine is their purchasing power…” This implied that the customer would choose between syrup and DT according to the pricing. Taste/Smell as a Determinant – There was a common perception among some pharmacy in-charges that syrup had a particular taste/smell that was either preferred by children or unpopular among them. A pharmacy 55 in-charge from Punjab explained why DT would be preferred over syrup, “Patient will prefer DTs over syrup because syrup has smell issue and DTs are more effective.” Some of the Pharmacy in-charges were of the view that syrup was a better option because of its taste. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab expanded, “The only preferred form of medicine for children is syrup because it