would be reluctant to take a production decision. Finding: The project has added value by improving management practices of healthcare providers, mainly outreach workers and primary level facilities. The project has added value by improving management practices of healthcare providers, mainly outreach workers and primary level facilities. There was an agreement among the respondents at primary level facilities that community case management for Pneumonia and Diarrhea is updated according to the global recommendations of WHO and GAPPD. The EQ: What are the implementation challenges from the perspective of both right holders and duty bearers especially for the underfive marginalized children of communities? EQ: What is the value added in terms of improved delivery of services for Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Midterm Evaluation Report 58 officials acknowledged the development of a separate module in IMNCI guidelines dedicated to Pneumonia and Diarrhea along with the introduction of new commodities for the management of these childhood illnesses. It was generally believed that these interventions contributed in improving Pneumonia and Diarrhea case management to a great extent. During key informant interviews, facility in-charges stated, “…lot of medicines are only available in adult strength; administration of accurate dosage for children suffering from pneumonia and diarrhea is critical.” “DT’s are more effective than syrups, exact dosage is administered through them.” During FGDs with LHWs, they explained, “DT’s are considered the most ideal since they are manufactured in solid state and a single dose is turned into liquid at point of administration.” Pulse Oximeter, and Oxygen therapy introduced in primary health facilities by UNICEF, as discussed in detail in relevance section have helped to detect hypoxemia a fatal complication of Pneumonia early and accurately long with oxygen availability have helped decrease complications. Female empowerment and gender equality has also been promoted through this project. The project involves provision of commodities including gadgets like ARI timers to LHWs, the project is equipping the females in the community and empowering them to perform better. Finding: Majority of the public health facilities had adequate supply of P&D recommended commodities but prescription behavior of care providers need improvement. Management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children under 05 years of age was done through review of prescriptions of children visiting surveyed healthcare facilities. A total of 480 prescriptions were recorded with 10 from each of 48 surveyed facilities, and 473 of which turned out to be containing relevant information. Out of these prescriptions,