the reader. In no event shall the World Health Organization be liable for damages arising from its use. Design and layout by: www.paprika-annecy.com Printed in France. Ending Preventable Child Deaths from Pneumonia and Diarrhoea by 2025 The integrated Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) 1 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) Table of contents Acknowledgements 2 Abbreviations and acronyms 3 Executive Summary 5 The integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) 9 1 . Pneumonia and diarrhoea – major killers of young children 10 2 . Pneumonia and diarrhoea and the Millennium Development Goals 10 3 . Background and purpose of the action plan 11 4 . The GAPPD as part of the global effort to improve women’s and children’s health 11 5 . The Protect, Prevent and Treat framework for pneumonia and diarrhoea interventions 13 6 . An environment for change 16 7 . Focus on equity and universal health coverage 17 8 . Areas needing special attention 28 9 . Monitoring and evaluation 31 10 . Global role of partners 33 11 . Research needs 34 12 . Opportunities 2013 –2025 34 13 . Conclusion 34 References 35 ANNEX 38 Annex 1. Previous Action Plans for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (summaries) 38 Annex 2. Key actions for selected interventions 40 Annex 3. Planning Framework for Coordinated Approaches for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea Control 53 Annex 4. Terms of reference for national working group for pneumonia and diarrhoea prevention and control 56 2 Acknowledgements This action plan was developed largely by WHO and UNICEF staff with contributions from a wide group of partners and stakeholders. We would like to thank the following organizations and governments for their valuable contributions throughout the process of development of the action plan (listed in alphabetical order): The Aga Khan University The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation Boston University School of Public Health Clinton Health Access Initiative Colorado School of Public Health The GAVI Alliance Instituto Nacional de Salud del Niño International Pediatric Association Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health John Snow Inc. The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine Management Sciences for Health Maternal and Child Health Integrated Program MDG Health Alliance Ministry of Public Health and Sanitation (Government of Kenya) One Million Community Health Workers Campaign: The Earth Institute at Columbia University The Partnership