to the need for periodic largescale population-based surveys as a complement to national health information. Engage and embed critical partners in the overall workplan/approach • Involve other programmes and sectors Many health programmes have a role in pneumonia and diarrhoea control. For example, nutrition programmes promote 24 breastfeeding and hygiene programmes promote practices to prevent diarrhoea. Task forces set up to manage cholera are putting in measures to prevent, prepare and respond to cholera. The national working group will work with these programmes, and if not already included, representatives from these programmes may wish to join the working group. In addition, the involvement of relevant non-health programmes (such as education for public health information; environment for housing conditions, energy access and water supply; public transportation for access to care) is encouraged in order to achieve better coordination and collaboration (see Box 8 for an example of supply chain integration, Box 9 for an example of integration between pneumonia and diarrhoea activities and those on clean energy access and Box 10 for an example of integration between household water and air quality). Box 8. Health commodities supply chain integration Parallel systems of supply delivery lead to inefficiencies, through fragmented management of health commodities and through storage and distribution problems such as wastage and stock-outs. This situation is caused in part by the increasing complexity of managing supplies. While there is a push for thermo-stability of some vaccines, pharmaceuticals are becoming increasingly more temperature sensitive. Optimize projects in Senegal, Tunisia and Vietnam are attempting to understand the feasibility and benefits of an integrated health commodity supply chain with vaccines, and to analyse both physical and management integration. A supply chain may be integrated vertically, fully or through segmentation, that is, organizing the supply chain into segments that respond to either customer needs or product requirements. In Senegal, there is full integration throughout the entire supply chain, from national to local level. A “moving warehouse” (topping-up model) is used. In Tunisia, there is segmented integration from national to subnational level for all temperature-sensitive products, but full integration from regional to local level (for all products for government-run programmes). Planned deliveries are based on convenient transportation circuits and efficient route planning (including supervision and service delivery). Source: Adapted from http://www.who.int/immunization_delivery/optimize/ background/en/index1.html, accessed 20 September 2012. Box 9. Opportunities to integrate GAPPD with global initiatives on achieving universal access to clean and safe household energy