the districts with the health workers only being provided ORS and small amounts of Zinc for Diarrhea patients and nothing for Pneumonia . The dismal situation left the LHWs largely unprepared to counter cases effectively. Things seemed to be considerably better in Tando Mohammad Khan, which presented a stark contrast with the other Sindh districts, where the LHWs had access to multiple forms of treatment protocol and referral guidelines like charts, posters and booklets, and had even developed the televised ‘Story of Meena’ as a way to spread community awareness. As for medicines, LHWs had access to an adequate supply of ORS, Antipyretics, Cotrimaxazole and Septran for Diarrhea and Ampicillin for Pneumonia. Punjab too, was undersupplied in terms of equipment and awareness material. The LHWs received small amounts of medicines through mail each month, which proved to be mostly adequate when dealing with the limited number of patients. 4.2.7.3 Training Training schedules seemed to be quite varying throughout the districts. Most of the Sindhi districts had received their last training a while ago, with no follow-ups being arranged. The district of Tando Mohammad Khan had never received any training at all. In Punjab, the situation seemed slightly better; the last sessions had been held quite recently, about 3-4 months ago, and one LHW even reported that she had received additional training as part of MCH week. Over all, the LHWs reported being satisfied with the trainings, saying they were extremely informative. Nonetheless, they complained about the irregular and unreliable scheduling and lack of refresher courses. The LHWs called for periodic training sessions and an updated curriculum teaching them new skills and practices, so they may be able to deliver services comparable to international standards. 4.2.7.4 Monitoring and Supervision All the LHWs responded with overwhelming appreciation for their designated superiors i.e. the Lady Health Supervisors (LHSs), and seemed to be very satisfied with the supervision mechanism in place. They stated that LHSs were both encouraging and supportive. The LHWs enjoyed a good rapport with their respective LHSs, who often took responsibility for any mistakes on their part, but were also slightly strict so that there was no such 57 repetition. LHWs maintained that their supervisors often arrange surprise visits to evaluate their performance and even visit patients’ households asking for feedback. They claimed that higher authorities like DHOs, District Coordinators and Assistant District Coordinators also arranged similar visits. 4.2.7.5 Maintenance of