informing them about benefits of treatment Building stronger collaborations with DRAP and private sector Short term ++ UNICEF Project Management Team Pharma industry and DRAP Limited interest of pharmaceutical manufacturers in local production Direct Demand Creation: Convincing provincial health authorities to include updated commodities in provincial procurement lists Medium term ++ Provincial Health Department Pharmaceutica l industry through relevant associations 7. Sufficient political will is available to control Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Policy Change Political will and commitment is evident from inclusion of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Pakistan’s national health vision and priorities for child health as well as the provincial health sector strategies Relevance and Sustainability Concerted advocacy efforts with political leadership for sustained will and commitment under the GAPPD for childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea management Policy dialogues and roundtables on improving management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea through updated commodities Short term +++ UNICEF Project Management Team M/o NHSR&C and Health Departments Midterm Evaluation Report 127 Assumption Link with Project Outcomes Findings of MTE based on DAC Criteria DAC Linkage Recommendation Proposed Action Timeline Priority Prime Responsibility Supporting Role Project interventions are aligned with provincial health sector strategies of Sindh and Punjab Mass-media engagement: Opinion Editorials in leading national newspapers Televised debates Medium term ++ UNICEF Project Management Team Mass-media agencies 8. Child survival group represent all relevant stakeholders and produce ownership of its recommendati on. Policy Change Child Survival Group of Punjab and Technical Working Group of Sindh have representation of all relevant stakeholders. Effectiveness Fostering CSG/TWG for harnessing its optimal potential and taking measure for sustenance beyond the project life Institutionalization of CSG/TWG through inclusion in PC-1 documents of relevant health programs (IRMNCH, MNCH and LHWs) Long term + CSG and TWG Ownership of CSG/TWG is evident from the decisionmaking and its followup by the members during CSG/TWG meetings. Recommendations of CSG/TWG have been critical in policy translation and implementation. Setting-up a small secretarial unit for the CSG and TWG Short term ++ CSG and TWG UNICEF Project Management Team 9. Credible and wellorganized implementing partners. Policy Implementation Project has identified implementing partners who have the capacity and spread across the country to effectively implement the project activities in their specific areas. Efficiency Building local capacities through engagement of existing partners and identifying new partners Prioritize areas for local partnership based on the findings of MTE Short term +++ UNICEF Project Management Team Implementing partners Midterm Evaluation Report