are ill? o Does the cost of accessing treatment sometimes prevent some families from taking the child? o What do you say about the overall quality of services? Would you like to visit this facility again for child care? o Do you have any suggestion to improve the services? 6. In your view, what have been the biggest obstacle tin combating childhood diarrhea and pneumonia? What are the solutions to these challenges / barriers? 7. What can be done to improve the health of children in this area? FGDs GUIDE WITH IN-CHARGES OF PHARMACIES/MEDICAL STORE 1. Which antibiotic is most commonly prescribed by clinicians (specialists/ General Practitioners) for the treatment of respiratory tract infections in children in your catchment area? Probe: i. Do you find any difference in prescribing pattern of Specialists and GPs? If yes, please elaborate. ii. In your opinion, what are the prime considerations of clinician to prescribe any drug? 2. Which medicine is most commonly prescribed by clinicians (specialists/ General Practitioners) for the treatment of diarrhea in children in your catchment area? Probe: i. Do you receive prescription of Zinc for children suffering from diarrhea? If yes how frequently and by whom? GP or specialist? ii. If not, probe if it was ever prescribed in the past. If so, what is probable reason for non-continuation? iii. Do you find any difference in prescribing pattern of Specialists and GPs? If yes, please elaborate. iv. In your opinion, what are the prime considerations of clinician to prescribe any drug? 3. What factor/s do you routinely consider while placing order for any new drug not acquired and sold before? 4. If any medicine is available in syrup as well as dispersible tablet form, which one, in your experience, client/patient would prefer and why so? Midterm Evaluation Report 120 5. Do you have amoxicillin and zinc in dispersible tablets (DT) formulation in stock for sale? If not, why not? Probe: i. Will you like to keep Amoxicillin and Zinc (DT) in your pharmacy? ii. Is the supply of these medicines regular or intermittent? What are the reasons for delay, if any? iii. In your opinion, which marketing strategy is more likely to promote demand and sale of these drugs? 6. Do you receive prescriptions from the public sector health facilities as well (e.g. BHUs, RHC, THQ, DHQ, and MCH)? If so, about what percentage do you get such prescriptions? If