– HDI and Geographical Variations District HDI Value Selected Districts Divisions of Selected Districts Karachi (all 06) 0.789 Karachi West Karachi Division Malir Ghotki 0.71 to 0.68 S. Benazirabad S. Benazirabad Division S. Benazirabad Sukkur TA Yar TM Khan Ghotki Sukkur Division Matiari Jamshoro Hyderabad 0.679 to 0.62 Dadu Hyderabad Division Mirpurkhas Midterm Evaluation Report 27 Dadu Khairpur Sanghar Khairpur Sukkur Division Naushahro Feroze Badin Shikarpur 0.619 to 0.31 Sujawal Larkana Division Sujawal Thatta Kambar Tharparkar Mirpurkhas Division Larkana Jacobabad Jacobabad Banbhore/Thatta Division Tharparkar 3.2.2 Development of Data Collection Tools Data collection tools were developed in order to undertake a high quality; impartial, participatory, equity focused and gender responsive evaluation. Consultations and meetings were held with the relevant key stakeholders as a means to provide an opportunity for building consensus on evaluation methodology and tools. Tools were shared with government counterparts before the data collection began. A deductive approach was adopted in developing the data collection tools, which was guided by the Evaluation Matrix (Annex 1) along with desk review and documents and information received during consultations with the relevant stakeholders. All sets of tools were pre-tested. Feedback from pre-tests and review of relevant stakeholders were incorporated in finalizing the tools (See Annex 5 for data collection tools and guides). 3.2.3 Qualitative Data Collection Stakeholders at primary departments, agencies and institutions at federal, provincial/regional level, selected districts level, facility in-charges; development partners and community level were engaged for qualitative data collection. Techniques employed for qualitative data collection included key informant interviews and focus group discussions. Limitations of both the techniques were kept in mind while designing the evaluation and identifying type of consultation for each stakeholder. Stakeholders engaged at policy change and policy translation levels were contacted through key informant interviews whereas Focus Group Discussions mainly generated information about policy implementation and its challenges. Key informant interviews gathered information from multitude of stakeholders from different institutions and organizations, both within and outside government, whereas Focus Group Discussions were used for obtaining insights from groups of professional (like general practitioners, medical store keepers, community workers) and perspective of beneficiaries. Although key informant interviews are susceptible to limitation of selecting right interviewee and challenge of scheduling interviews with policy making level respondents. In addition to technical reviews, Reference Group formed under the Ministry facilitated in selection of the right key informants and scheduling appointments. List of key informants is given in the