to change the order. It has never happened that we have stocked new medicines and the sale for that item remains zero.” A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh analyzed the brand and price dynamics in the following words: “We routinely consider placing order for any new drug. If quality of medicine is good and manufacturing company is good too and price in less, then we do that. Expensive medicines are being sold in lesser number. We prefer new, cheap and better medicines over the old ones.” Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 99 There was also a prevalent notion that during a certain season, the demand for diarrhea medicines increases and it was commonly referred as season of diarrhea. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab explained that, “… it also varies according to seasonal nature of illnesses and more prescriptions are received in seasons of diseases like pneumonia and diarrhea.” A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh stressed upon this factor, “Procuring a new medicine is based on the changes in weather. New illnesses emerge because of changes in weather...” Market Opportunities for DTs The current market for DTs is not very developed according to the GPs and there are many areas that need attention including demand and supply along with awareness about such new form of medicines. Topics focused in this section emerged as themes with regards to market for DTs. A common view among the pharmacy in-charges was that there wasn’t much demand for DTs and they were willing to keep them if demand existed. All the Pharmacy in-charges interviewed did not have amoxicillin and zinc in DT forms in their stores. A few pharmacy in-charges categorically mentioned that he had it in “syrup and injection” form. The pharmacy in-charges were unanimous that they would keep DTs in stock for sale if there were a demand for it and if doctors prescribed it. A common answer among Pharmacy in-charges was, “I will keep Amoxicillin and Zinc DTs in my medical store if prescribed by doctors. Prescription of such medicine by doctors can really promote the demand and sale of such medicine.” A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh reiterated this opinion, “We cannot keep any new medicine until the patient does not demand it and doctor does not prescribe it.” Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 100 Some pharmacy in-charges believed that there was a lack of availability of DTs in the market and they were