with projections of cost and outcomes. For example, UNICEF and partners are working closely with manufacturers to increase zinc availability, as UNICEF is the largest buyer of zinc tablets, representing over 80% of international procurement. It is also the largest procurer of dispersible amoxicillin tablets. Key partners can also make an important contribution to addressing risk factors beyond the health sector that need action, such as access to clean household energy. National groups tasked with coordination of pneumonia and diarrhoea control can draw on the activities and input of SEFA and the UNF Global Alliance for Clean Cookstoves and their implementing partners (both international and in-country). Not only will this provide valuable technical (e.g. risk assessment, technology development and evaluation; international standards and testing) and policy (e.g. market development, financing) support for national action plans, but will also help to define the important contributions that can be made from the health system. In partnerships like this, stronger accountability for actions is required. The GAVI Alliance and its support for health system strengthening and new vaccine introduction can also be used at the country level to ensure health worker training, monitoring and evaluation, supply chain management, etc. Over the past 3 years, the GAVI Alliance has assisted over 20 countries to introduce pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV), which prevents the most common cause of childhood pneumonia. Introduction of new vaccines can provide a platform for the provision of other commodities such as antibiotics, ORS and zinc, as well as facilitate the update of joint reporting and monitoring tools (e.g. registers, Child Health Cards). 34 11 . Research needs Pneumonia and diarrhoea control efforts are unlikely to be effective unless supported by strong research, both basic and operational. The neglect of research in the fields of pneumonia and diarrhoea over the past decade has left many important clinical and epidemiological questions unanswered. The GAPPD is committed to the promotion of research, including community-based action research and sociocultural research on knowledge, attitudes, perceptions, cultural practices and health seeking behaviours. While country programmes move to scale up interventions, there will be a need for research on delivery strategies, on overcoming barriers to interventions and on better ways for implementation. However, the need for such research is no reason to delay the implementation of effective interventions now. Research efforts to control pneumonia and diarrhoea in children must include building research capacity in the countries most affected.