to millions. It is not only growing into technologically strong and self-reliant national pharmaceutical industry but also capturing more and more international markets. The Pakistan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association had adopted “Vision 2025” for the national pharmaceutical industry, under which it is envisioned to increase the exports of medicines to $5 billion in the coming 10 years. Pakistan pharmaceutical Industry is exporting to Egypt, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Iraq, Myanmar, Nepal, Nigeria, Sudan, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Uganda, Uzbekistan, Kenya Cambodia, Kirghizstan and Vietnam. The prospects of further expansion of exports are getting brighter day by day due to competitive price and good quality. In order to promote local pharmaceutical industry, there should be least reliance on the products of other countries, but Pakistan being a signatory to WTO, cannot put restrictions on imports, unlike countries, which are still non-signatory to WTO, such as Bangladesh. Similarly, tariff on local industry by the government needs extensive review to facilitate it in competing countries exporting medicines and supplies at more affordable ranges, like India and China, while still maintaining their competitive edge. Most such medicines are manufactured in WHO approved sites of these countries and respective governments keep tariff low to promote exports. Regulatory Mechanism – The Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP) was established to provide for effective coordination and enforcement of Drugs Act, 1976 and to bring harmony in interprovincial trade and commerce of drugs and therapeutic goods. The authority is responsible for regulation manufacturing, import, export, storage, distribution and sale of therapeutic goods. The DRAP ensures safety of people and regulate production of drugs by issuing license to legitimate manufacturers and registering drugs fulfilling international standard of cGMPs. All unregistered drugs are considered spurious and un-lawful. Pharmaceutical Evaluations and Registration Division is responsible for the evaluation, assessment and registration of pharmaceuticals drugs for human beings, animals and to perform other functions connected therewith and assigned by the Board. 5.2.1 Governing Structure of DRAP The board sets policy directions for administration and monitoring activities under a chairperson, Secretary MoNHSRC of BS-22. It is comprised of fifteen (15) members, including the CEO (as Secretary), Health Secretaries of all the provinces and six (06) Technical Expert Members. The Authority is run by Chief Executive Officer and his team of fifteen (15) Directors. It has 13 divisions, including Pharmaceutical Evaluations and Registration, Medical Devices and Medical Cosmetic, Biological Drugs, Costing and Pricing, Legal Affairs, Drug Licensing,