is based on the estimated quantities from the districts. While with the estimating budget, special care is required for procurement of the medicine and equipment. This includes the actual expenditure incurred from Jan to May 2017, and the estimated needs for the remaining days of May & June, 2017. This will cater to the immediate need of payments, required for the medicine, procured at provincial level in “centralized procurement” mode. Following the government rules, the technical specification and financial specifications were acknowledged. The lowest bidders were contracted for the supply of medicines. It is stated, that the quality of the products should be according to the standards of drug act. In Sindh: According to the “Bid Documents for Procurement of drugs by procuring agencies of Sindh,” in General Condition, it is stated that the chemical and physical examination of medicines shall be carried out through the provincial drug testing laboratories. It has been observed and reported by health department Sindh; that the provincial drug testing laboratory is not properly functioning, hence, according to the government procurement rules “the batch release certificate” for test analysis report of quality control / quality assurance department, the manufacturers have to be relied upon. Similarly, based on this situation, most of the public health facilities did not send their samples for quality assurance. The health facilities reported, that they have procured the medicines from prequalified firms or manufacturers, so the document was not required. And if they are required to send the document for DTL, then there will be more delay in availability of the medicines. In Punjab: All the samples of medicines were sent to Drug Testing laboratories. In Punjab, particularly, there were five drug testing laboratories established at divisional level by the department of health; which covers the analytical requirements. The payments of the medicines were only made, when districts or hospitals receive the satisfactory reports from these laboratories. In Punjab, it was witnessed, that despite putting in a lot of efforts in this case, the selection of the brand leaders, development of the new strategies for procurement, efficient follow up for pipe line status of orders, increase in budget to meet the gaps, timely submission of reports from DTL, timely payments to the manufacturer; an unacceptable delay in supplies SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 42 was observed due to which health facilities were in very bad shape. So much so that