received during the meeting, the Inception Report was revised. The final inception report had the technical approach and methodology of the midterm evaluation among key stakeholders. Midterm Evaluation Report 33 3.5.6 Field-testing and Finalization of Data Collection Tools Approved tools after the inception meeting were further tested in the field, in same settings followed by adjustments, if needed, to determine: • Any problem in language of questionnaire and skip patterns if any; • Completion of interview in a given time; and • Clarity of enumerators on questionnaire. Field‐testing was conducted systematically, with potential respondents by using the same method of administration. Considering the feedback of field‐testing, any changes in tools were made and shared with UNICEF Evaluation Management Team. 3.5.7 Recruitment of Field Staff Appropriate and qualified field staff members for evaluation were identified, short listed and then hired. Field teams was constituted striking a gender balance. Following were the structure and composition of the teams: • 2 Teams with Technical team members conducted Federal and Provincial level KIIs in Punjab and Sindh • Facility Based Survey (In total 12 persons) for 18 days • Punjab: 1 team of 3 persons (2 females +1 male) for 18 days • Sindh: 3 team of 3 persons each (6 females + 3 males) for 18 days • District level KIIs, FGDs and Case studies (In total 8 persons) for 10 days • District level KIIs were done by a team of Sociologists (male moderator and female note-taker) • Punjab (3 districts): 1 team of 2 Sociologists (1 male and 1 female) for 10 days • Sindh (9 districts): 3 team of 2 Sociologists (1 male and 1 female) each for 10 days The technical team members conducted federal and provincial KIIs. The district data collection teams were responsible for conducting district specific KIIs, FGDs and districts’ office visits. It was ensured that they must be graduates, fluent in native language and well versed with the local customs. Teams were monitored by Field Manager, who shall act as coordinator and responsible for overall supervision and reporting to technical team. Field teams were identified, recruited, organized, trained and supervised by Contech, which was also be responsible for supervision, transportation and logistics of team movements, and their subsequent payments. 3.5.8 Training of Field Staff The field training was conducted at the highest professional level and in a systematic manner that ensured timely and quality completion