antenatal care visits. In terms of promoting sanitation and hygiene, schools are an important training ground; schoolchildren, in turn, often inﬂuence such practices at home. Household water treatment has also become more mainstream in recent years, allowing more households to increase their access to safe drinking water. Finally, market-based solutions are often the most effective way to deliver key diarrhoea control commodities, such as soap, latrines or home water treatment products. Sources: Touchette, P.E, J. Elder, M. Nagiel, ‘How Much Oral Rehydration Solution is Actually Administered During Home-based Therapy?’, Journal of Tropical Medicine Hygiene, vol. 93, no. 1, Feb 1990, pp. 28-34; Curtis, V., L. Danquah, R. Aunger, ‘Habitual, Motivated and Planned Handwashing: A review of formative research from 11 countries’, Health Education Research, 2009. A 7-point plan for comprehensive diarrhoea control 4 35 36 Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done Data used in this report 37 Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys are nationally representative, standardized sample surveys to which UNICEF provides ﬁnancial and technical support. Since their inception in 1995, nearly 200 MICS have been carried out globally. The latest round of surveys (MICS3) was conducted in more than 50 countries between 2005 and 2006. The next round is scheduled for 2009-2010. More information is available at www.childinfo.org. Demographic and Health Surveys are also nationally representative, standardized surveys that are usually implemented every ﬁve years with funding from USAID. The DHS is designed to collect a variety of data on a broad range of demographic and health issues and to be comparable over time and across countries. More information is available at www. measuredhs.com. Indicators Prevention indicators The indicators to monitor prevention coverage (such as immunization, nutrition, and water and sanitation) presented in this report are based on well known and long-standing child survival indicators that are regularly used to monitor progress towards global goals and commitments. For example, data on water supply and sanitation are based on the work of the WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation (www.wssinfo.org). Further information on these prevention indicators, such as deﬁnitions and data sources, are available at www.childinfo.org. Data used in this report The data used in this report were derived from a range of sources, which are summarized below. Childhood diarrhoea burden Estimates of the global and regional number of diarrhoea cases and deaths are based on the Global Burden Disease project, and are