manufacturers to increase future availability of zinc tablets. UNICEF is the largest buyer of such tablets, representing over 80 per cent of international procurement.42 UNICEF procurement of zinc tablets started in 2006 and has increased signiﬁcantly since that time (Figure 24). In 2006, UNICEF procured 20.5 million zinc tablets; the ﬁgure rose to 73.7 million in 2007 and 157.9 million tablets in 2008. In 2008, zinc tablets were distributed by UNICEF to 38 countries – a signiﬁcant increase from the 11 countries to which zinc was distributed in 2006. Despite this major progress, global zinc availability is still dismally low compared to the global need. Preventing and treating childhood diarrhoea: Where we stand today 3 UNICEF procurement of zinc tablets has increased signiﬁcantly since 2006, but still falls far short of global need Number (in millions) of zinc tablets procured by UNICEF, 2006-2008 Source: UNICEF Supply Division, 2009. Five years after UNICEF and WHO issued a joint statement recommending a new ORS formula and zinc treatment for diarrhoea, these products are largely unavailable in most developing countries. Why? For a number of years, there was one zinc product that met quality standards for international procurement by UNICEF. Zinc is now procured by UNICEF, governments and other agencies and is manufactured locally in a handful of countries. However, meeting policy and regulatory requirements for importing a new product continues to present challenges for zinc introduction in many countries. Moreover, changing child health treatment recommendations nationally can also be difﬁcult. Compounding the problem is the fact that initial start-up funds for these new treatments can be signiﬁcant, and beyond the scope of regular health budgets. In addition, many countries are hesitant to buy zinc because they have little experience with it as part of diarrhoea management programmes: They are unsure of the demand and are reluctant to devote funds to one-time start-up activities, such as developing training materials. A few countries have recently taken steps to make zinc and low-osmolarity ORS more widely available. In Nepal, for example, government approval and acceptance of the zinc policy, approval and registration of local zinc products, and inclusion of zinc on the essential drug list have all helped to establish an environment conducive to a zinc programme. In addition, Nepal’s Ministry of Health has collaborated with partners to train both public and private sector health personnel in key districts, coordinate the development of promotional materials,