and hygiene messages. MoH support is essential, along with technical and financial assistance to support communitylevel staff. In Ethiopia, the Health Extension Programme has integrated WASH into health worker activities. The promotion of WASH messages, delivered by HEWs and Community Health Promoters (CHPs), has been associated with a substantial reduction in the incidence of diarrhoea in two areas studied. HEWs and CHPs have also involved local and religious leaders in the promotion and implementation of WASH messages. Use of HEWs and CHPs as role models to demonstrate good sanitation and hygiene practices in their own homes was highlighted. Effective change will require a shift of emphasis from message delivery to support for long-term behaviour change. More household visits by CHWs would facilitate this shift. Strategies that contain behaviour change elements, such as IMCI and community-led total sanitation, should be coordinated. A study into diarrhoea control policies in Mali, Ethiopia and Zambia concluded that without a coordinating mechanism in place, it is difficult to ascertain whether such strategies are complementary and mutually reinforcing. Based on the study findings, it is also unclear whether these strategies support communities as they transition to any long-term behaviour change. Source: Adapted from: Gill S, Hayes J, Coates S. Diarrhoea dialogues: from policies to progress, A call for urgent action to prevent the biggest killer of children in sub-Saharan Africa. Teddington UK and Washington DC, USA, Tear Fund, PATH, 2012. Available at: http://tilz.tearfund.org/webdocs/Tilz/Research/ DiarrhoeaDialoguesFinal2012Lowres.pdf, accessed 1 February 2013. 23 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) The national working group should develop a concrete plan applying appropriate strategies to increase key intervention coverage in an equitable manner. This plan should ensure that access to interventions is improved in areas or populations that are currently the most under-served (such as rural areas without access to safe water and sanitation, urban slums or those in fragile and emergency risk settings). A recent review of changes in national coverage for infant health found that the countries making faster gains in coverage were those able to increase coverage among the poorest at a faster rate than among the better-off (56). Policy issues will need to be resolved in order to remove barriers to scaling up. These include empowering communitylevel workers to manage pneumonia with antibiotics as well as use zinc in diarrhoea case management; improving outreach and service linkages with communities to