informant interviews are susceptible to limitation of selecting right interviewee and challenge of scheduling interviews with policy making level respondents. In addition to technical reviews, Reference Group formed under the Ministry facilitated in selection of the right key informants and scheduling appointments. List of key informants is given in the following table. Midterm Evaluation Report 28 Table 3: Qualitative Sampling Matrix for Key Informant Interviews Sr. # Key Stakeholders Targeted Officials No. of KIIs Federal Level 1. Ministry of National Health Services Regulation and Coordination Director & Deputy Director Programmes 2 2. Neonatology Children hospital, PIMS Associate Professor 1 Provincial Level 3. Department of Health Sindh Representative 1 4. Department of Primary and Secondary Healthcare Punjab Representative 1 5. Directorates General of Health Services Punjab and Sindh DG Health 2 6. Director DHIS 2 7. Vertical Programmes (LHW Programme Sindh, MNCH Programme Sindh, IRMNCH & N Programme Punjab) Representatives 3 8. Implementing Partners of DOH Sindh (HANDS, MERF, PPHI, IHS) Representative 4 9. Pharmacists Associations / Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Representatives 2 10. Child Survival Groups Punjab and Sindh Representatives 3 11. Sindh Child Survival Programme Representative 1 12. Department of Pediatrics, Ganga Ram Hospital, Lahore Head of Department 1 13. Pakistan Pediatrics Association Representative 1 UNICEF Programme Staff 14. Federal Staff Focal Persons 2 15. Provincial Staff Focal Persons (Sindh & Punjab) 2 Development Partners 16. WHO Focal Person 1 17. Aga Khan University Focal Person 1 District Level 18. District Health Department CEO/DHO along with LHW, MNCH and DHIS Coordinators 12 19. Health Facilities In-charges 48 Focus Group Discussions (FGDs) were conducted with Local Service Providers, Pharmacists/medical storekeepers, Community health workers (LHWs, LHS) and service users/mothers/care-givers of children under 5 years (16 FGDs with 6-8 participants each). Midterm Evaluation Report 29 Although FGDs face certain limitations but due to non-conflicting nature of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea, participants of the FGDs expressed their thoughts and discussed opportunities to save the children of their communities. Gender diversity was ensured among focus group members. The FGDs with LHWs and mothers (above 18 years) all had female participants. Numbers of FGDs are given in the following table. Table 4: Qualitative Sampling Matrix for Focus Group Discussions Sr. No. Types of Stakeholders No. of FGDs 1. Service Providers (Private Practitioners) 4 2. Pharmacists and Medical Store Keeper 4 3. Community Health Workers (LHWs, LHSs) 4 4. Beneficiaries/Service Users (Over 18Mothers/Caregivers of children under 5) 4