be possible. The government’s active participation is also needed to coordinate child survival policy with health, and education policies, easing the rollout of effective management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. 2) Local Managers & Service Providers: Advocacy at this tier ensures renewed emphasis on the importance of adopting revised and updated Pneumonia and diarrhoea treatment guidelines and the efficient use of essential commodities. Convincing regarding coordination with other maternal and child health messaging and local manufacturing can ensure greater acceptability of proposed essential Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities. 3) Community: A large share of the population still needs to be convinced about the ease of use and convenience of dispersable tablets, however this can be achieved through involvement of local GPs and medical stores/pharmacies in prescribing recommended commodities. 4) Influencers: This set of stakeholders can act as ambassadors for advocating the benefits of effective management of diarrhoea and Pneumonia to the three audiences above. In Pakistan’s context influencers can be classified under the four pillars below: • Media and Intelligentsia: A powerful agent that exercises influence on policy makers through demands of accountability, and, shapes norms and influences informal discourse at the community level through its entertainment interface. Currently, there are more than 10 million cable subscribers, with a high percent of households owning radio/TV sets and reading newspapers in Pakistan. Thus, media can exert significant 109 influence that can be used to nurture positive perceptions and demand for essential commodities through popular anchors and writers. Further, publications in various journals may be promoted to encourage related research in Pakistan. • Donors, NGOs and development partners: This group may be advocated to allocate more funds focussed towards the two diseases. Policy making in Pakistan is not a highly coherent and rational process that each part leads logically and inexorably to each succeeding part. Stages of policy formulation do not necessarily follow each other through time in any regular or consistent pattern. Advocates should keep on pushing for implementation even after initial support for project planning appears to have been won (Grindle & Thomas, 1991). Therefore, an advocacy campaign shall follow an interactive and process-oriented strategy by addressing all distinct phases of policy cycle through identified influencers and processes – starting from problem identification and policy formulation to its implementation and evaluation of the potential outcomes. Problem identification is the most critical in the policy process. In proposed advocacy campaign, agenda setting shall