continuous training sessions • Communicated that a certain sense of insecurity/ lack of safety prevailed while going out in the field • Wanted record maintenance of cases to be computerized Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 111 drinking water should be provided.” Another parent from Sindh reiterated this view, “We have a lot of patients of diarrhea, fever and abdominal pain in our village. Diarrhea mostly occurs in children due to lack of clean drinking water and lack of cleanliness.” Apart from the above-mentioned diseases, many parents stated that skin allergies and other seasonal infections caused severe health hazards. A parent from Punjab expressed that “The diseases which normally affects patients here are viral infections and skin allergies.” Another parent from Punjab further explained, “In our area children usually have scabies, skin allergies, fever, coughing, and flue. These problems don’t lead any deaths in children.” Most of the parents maintained that none of these diseases had ever proven to be fatal. A parent from Punjab informed that “… infectious diseases are common in our area but we have never seen any child die due to these problems.” Another parent from Sindh added to this narrative, “… fortunately there haven’t been any diseases of children under the age of five which have become the reason for his/her death.” However, a parent from Sindh had another perspective on deaths of children; he said “We have diarrhea, pneumonia and malaria due to mosquito bites. Deaths occur due to lack of food. Diarrhea occurs due to lack of cleanliness…” Hence, it was widely understood that malnutrition lead to deaths. Doctors, NGOs, LHWs and TV advertisements were considered main sources in spreading awareness about pneumonia and diarrhea. Most of the parents claimed that they had been entirely unaware of these diseases before being provided information by these sources. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 112 Causes of Diseases Majority of parents seemed quite well informed about the causes of diseases. Most commonly mentioned causes of diseases by the parents were poor hygiene, lack of clean drinking, malnutrition and seasonal changes. According to parents, fixing these aspects would serve as appropriate preventive measures. A parent from Punjab elaborated, “In my opinion pneumonia and diarrhea basically occur due to unclean water and winter season. If we take preventive measures like warm clothing and proper hygiene, we can save our children.” Poor Hygiene Conditions – All respondents stressed upon cleanliness