the evaluation cycle were assessed through the lens of gender, social exclusion, child rights and equity, ensuring that it was reflected in the findings and recommendations. 3.5.2 Risks Management Risk management plan was developed, identifying events in which the team foresees numerous potential risks and constraints, which may affect the evaluation adversely. Accordingly, mitigation measures were adopted to ensure a robust evaluation process and outcome like data quality, consistency and others. A risk register was prepared at the inception of the project and is attached as 6. 3.5.3 Backstopping Backstopping and quality assurance mechanism was established and a consensus was built on what activities and outputs to be monitored, how to monitor and what information are required to monitor them. Backstopping and Advisory team carried out this task. Monitoring and regular progress updates were used as a way of assuring quality. 3.5.4 Continuous Liaison with UNICEF Team Evaluation team worked in close collaboration and continuous liaison with UNICEF Evaluation and Research Unit, PMU as well as UNICEF’s Gender Specialist and Gender Focal Point in Health Section. The data collected is the sole property of UNICEF. 3.5.5 Inception Phase Preparatory meetings were held with relevant UNICEF staff at Punjab and Sindh to develop a deeper understanding of project component, implementation approaches, activities and guidance on evaluation framework. The aim of these initial meetings was to gain a consensus on evaluation design, methodology/implementation strategies and work plan. During these pre-inception meetings and informal consultations, many relevant documents and pieces of information were shared which have facilitated Contech in informing the scope of the evaluation. A Reference Group was established for quality assurance of all key deliverables. A formal Evaluation Management Team was also formed for this assessment, which comprises of evaluation teams from both UNICEF and Contech. This facilitated close coordination and collaboration with UNICEF since the commencement of the project. The inception meeting took place on 4th July 2019 in Islamabad. Federal Ministry, provincial departments, donors, development partners and UNICEF project team participated in the meeting and gave comprehensive feedback on all sections of the inception report. Based on the feedback received during the meeting, the Inception Report was revised. The final inception report had the technical approach and methodology of the midterm evaluation among key stakeholders. Midterm Evaluation Report 33 3.5.6 Field-testing and Finalization of Data Collection Tools Approved tools after the inception meeting were further tested in the field,