the national level. Data measuring progress towards GAPPD goals will be measured through surveillance efforts, existing processes such as the Child Health Epidemiology Research Group, and through improved burden of disease impact models. The iERG of the United Nations CoIA will be involved as appropriate, as will as the World Health Assembly. WHO and UNICEF have been leading the process to develop post-2015 water and sanitation targets. The indicators below are based on this work and adapted specifically to the GAPPD timeline (2025 compared to 2030 as used in the water and sanitation targets). In addition, a target specifically on household water treatment and safe storage is proposed based on the 2011-2016 Strategy of the WHO/UNICEF International Network on Household Water Treatment and Safe Storage (71). These targets will be reviewed by a WHOcommissioned Taskforce that will focus specifically on health in 2013. WHO and partners are developing a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation strategy for clean household energy. This combines ‘bottom-up’ information based on supply and purchase of interventions, with ‘top-down’ data from national surveys. Ad-hoc field studies are also included for more complete evaluation of intervention use and impacts. Work to develop and test survey instruments is at the planning stage. Table 3. Indicators to evaluate progress in achieving key operational targets for pneumonia and diarrhoea control Indicator Definition Sources of Data Hib immunization coverage Percentage of children aged 12-23 months who received 3 doses of Hib vaccine WHO/UNICEF estimates Measles immunization coverage Percentage of children aged 12-23 months immunized with measles-containing vaccine WHO/UNICEF estimates DTP3 immunization coverage Percentage of children aged 12-23 months who received 3 doses of DTP3 vaccine WHO/UNICEF estimates PCV immunization coverage Percentage of children aged 12-23 months who received 3 doses of PCV WHO/UNICEF estimates Rotavirus immunization coverage Percentage of children aged 12-23 months who received completed schedule of rotavirus vaccine WHO/UNICEF estimates Exclusive breastfeeding for 6 months Percentage of infants aged 0-5 months who are exclusively breastfed DHS, MICS, national nutrition surveys Continued breastfeeding at 1 year Proportion of children 12–15 months of age who are fed breast milk DHS, MICS, national nutrition surveys Complementary feeding Percentage of children aged 6-23 months who received a minimum acceptable diet DHS, national nutrition surveys Vitamin A supplementary coverage Percentage of children 6 -59 months who received 2 annual doses Monitoring data from bi-annual events; HMIS Oral rehydration therapy Percentage of children aged 0-59 months with