that, “Such diseases can be prevented if clean water and healthy diet is accessible in the community.” Some GPs also mentioned the social factors responsible for these diseases including poverty, illiteracy and lack of awareness. Majority of the GPs believed that pneumonia’s diagnosis was easily done through stethoscope, x-ray and also through their own experience. Most commonly mentioned symptoms of pneumonia were respiratory problems, irregular breast-feeding patterns, high body temperature. On the contrary most popular symptoms for diarrhea were sunken eyes, dehydration, pale skin, fever and loose motions. GPs who discussed the difference between diarrhea and dysentery stated that the difference between them were the passage of blood. A GP from Punjab expounded, “In diarrhea, there are loose watery motions, vomiting and fever whereas, in dysentery blood comes with stools. Dysentery can be caused by both viral and bacterial infection.” Some GPs were of the opinion that allopathic treatment was adopted as the last resort while a few believed that there was sufficient awareness to consult a GP right away. Self-medication was also revealed as a popular mode of treatment. Spiritual healing was also mentioned by a few. Most popular way of treatment of pneumonia was through antibiotics; most commonly stated were Augmentin, Ciprofloxacin, and Amoxicillin along with nebulizers. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 90 Almost all GPs believed that oxygen was important for the treatment of pneumonia. Majority of GPs found syrup to be more convenient for children, however a few also mentioned antibiotic injections. Most shared treatment for diarrhea included zinc syrup, ORS and antibiotics (Flagyl, Ciprofloxacin, Novidate). Intravenous infusions were also stated by a few GPs. Treatment Practices of GPs Awareness, availability and affordability, were the three factors that were highlighted by GPs when they discussed usage of Zinc DTs and low osmolarity ORS. There were mixed responses about the awareness of zinc DTs and low osmolarity ORS in treating diarrhea. Some GPs were aware of these modes of treatment while others were not. This awareness was relatively lower in Punjab. Among GPs who were aware of low osmolarity ORS, some considered it better than the regular one while others considered the opposite. Generally GPs were unsure about its availability in the market. Similarly, most GPs were unaware of zinc dispersible tablets (DTs) and amongst the few who were aware, they were unsure of their availability in the market. A GP from Punjab revealed, “Yes, oral Zinc