for in-service training and capacity building of these staff in your district? • Do you have any in-service training programme for staff at primary level health facilities and community? • Any specific training for Pneumonia and Diarrhea care provider, like IMNCI or any other training? • If you don’t have in built mechanism of in-service training in your district what else you do for this purpose? 6. What is the current status of facility resources (building, equipment and supplies) for child health services, particularly Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • Are sufficient amount of antibiotics (particularly Amoxicillin, L-ORS and Zinc) provided to the primary health facilities and community-based service providers? • What are the common reasons for stock-outs of these medicines and supplies? • Are any specific equipment, like ARI timers and pulse oximeters, provided to the service providers for better managing cases of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • Are all your primary level health facilities provided with oxygen supply for managing childhood Pneumonia? • In your opinion, how can the availability of medicines, supplies and equipment be ensured at the primary health facilities and the community-based workers? 7. Can you throw some light on your routine MIS? What is the current status of DHIS? • What do you think about the sufficiency of DHIS tools for recording and reporting regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • Do these reports provide adequate cover and indicate the shortage of commodities? • Have you made any decisions regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea on the basis of the reports generated at district level? Kindly give some examples. • How can the recording and reporting of services regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea be improved? Midterm Evaluation Report 102 8. What are your inbuilt mechanisms for monitoring and supervision of facility and community based staff? • What is the current supervision policy? At which level, is responsibility of supervision fixed? • Is the supervision integrated or service specific e.g. for EPI, CMWs, LHWs, etc.? • Is there any notified district schedule for supervisory visits to the primary level facilities and community based workers? • What are your suggestions to improve the monitoring and supervision of child health services in your district? 9. How frequently do you conduct evaluation to monitor the achievement of your facilities? • Have you generated or published any report/s of your evaluations. Kindly give some examples. 10. Do you have liaison with