the diagnosis and treatment of hypoxia (low blood oxygen), which often complicates pneumonia. Example innovations that are being explored include respiratory rate timers built onto an Android platform that will assist rural providers in the detection of fast breathing as a key symptom of pneumonia; low-cost pulse oximeters that can be used for the detection of hypoxia; and oxygen concentrators and generators of oxygen by way of chemical reaction that will help remedy the scarcity of supply chains for oxygen supplementation in rural areas. Source: Personal Communication, Karen Pak Oppenheimer, WHP, January 2013 • Generate demand and ensure supply Generating demand, both at political and community level, involves advocacy and communication strategies. Providing information, education and communication to health workers, the private sector, the general public and families should be an important part of the action plan. Especially important are activities to raise awareness of risks and increase prevention and care seeking in communities, based on formative research into the barriers and other relevant factors (see Boxes 13 and 14). Key family and community practices that have a major impact on child health have been identified. Related interventions have the potential to make a substantial contribution to the reduction in mortality/ morbidity and/or improvement in child development (67). Experts in relevant fields should be involved to ensure that communications are evidence-based, consistent, relevant and correctly targeted. Resources should be dedicated for this purpose in the action plan (see Box 15). At the global level, the Global Coalition Against Child Pneumonia helps to generate interest and resources through World Pneumonia Day (WPD) activities, and links interested groups together. Besides WPD, promotional and informational activities go on throughout the year. When generating demand, actions should be taken to ensure that any increased demand for services is met. This can be achieved through careful monitoring of progress in uptake of interventions, and by ensuring that mechanisms are in place to review the availability and distribution of human and other resources. 27 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) Box 13. Interventions to generate demand for community case management of pneumonia The Lady Health Workers (LHW) Programme, Save the Children – United States and WHO sought to increase demand in communities of Haripur district, Pakistan (population over 700,000) for CCM of pneumonia. This was the first stage of a trial to determine the effectiveness of CCM