DTs were made available to LHWs in both Punjab and Sindh. Through the eﬀorts of this project, Government has included Amoxicillin DTs and Zinc DTs for P&D in the procurement lists of healthcare facilities, ensuring the sustainability of these drugs at the healthcare facilities beyond the life of the project.The facility in-charges in both Punjab and Sindh discussed DTs, in terms of their availability, acceptability and practicality as a formulation in comparison with syrup. Dispersible Tablets have gained popularity and Zinc DTs were present in majority of the facilities in Sindh and Punjab, and facility in-charges were aware of their beneﬁts. Facility in-charge from Sindh shared their views on DTs beneﬁts, “These are more eﬀective than syrup, exact dosage is administered through them which is essential for recovery.” DTs were perceived to not only provide appropriate management but also had additional beneﬁts of accurate dosage and easy administration for caregivers with low literacy rates. Further, in support of evaluation ﬁndings, quantitative analysis of two recent Pakistan Demographic and Health Surveys reveal that there has been signiﬁcant improvement regarding seeking treatment or advice from healthcare providers and front line workers. Statistics show that the practice of seeking advice or treatment for both Pneumonia and Diarrhea has signiﬁcantly improved (61% in 2012-13 to 71% in 2017-18 for Diarrhea) and (64% in 2012-13 to 84% for ARI). Evidence also suggest that during the last ﬁve years, use of zinc for treatment of Diarrhea has increased signiﬁcantly, i.e. 2% in 2012-13 to 13% in 2017-18. Thus, improvement in management of P&D is evident, which can be taken as an indication of positive impact of UNICEF’ support and advocacy to warrant early and accurate treatment. Midterm Evaluation Report 89 Annex 5: Guides for Interviews and Focus Group Discussions Guide for Ministry of Health Service Regulation and Coordination and Provincial DoH Before starting interview, remember to: ⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit ⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of study objectives ⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 1. Do the national/provincial/ policies/strategies and guidelines incorporate the global recommendations for pneumonia and diarrhea? 2. Who are key stakeholders supporting the Government in P&D management? 3. Have the policies on community case management for pneumonia and diarrhea updated according to the global recommendations (World Health Organization (WHO)/Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD)? a. Who has supported