provided by mothers or caregivers. Caregivers are asked whether their children suﬀered from diarrhoea in the two weeks prior to the survey. If so, they are then asked if the child received a ﬂuid made from a special packet of ORS or a pre-packaged ORS ﬂuid (where applicable) during the diarrhoea episode. Recommended homemade ﬂuids – Proportion of children aged 0-59 months with diarrhoea receiving a government-recommended homemade ﬂuid (to be customized based on national guidelines) during the diarrhoea episode. This indicator is based on information provided by mothers or caregivers. Caregivers are asked whether their children suﬀered from diarrhoea in the two weeks prior to the survey. If so, they are then asked if the child received a government-recommended homemade ﬂuid during the diarrhoea episode. This question should be customized prior to starting survey work to include the speciﬁc ﬂuids recommended by national guidelines to treat diarrhoea. Increased ﬂuids – Proportion of children aged 0-59 months with diarrhoea receiving more to drink during the diarrhoea episode. This indicator is based on information provided by mothers or caregivers. Caregivers are asked whether their children suﬀered from diarrhoea in the two weeks prior to the survey. If so, they are then asked if (during this illness) the child received none, much less, somewhat less, about the same, or more to drink than usual. Children reported to have received more to drink than usual during the illness are considered to have received this intervention. Continued feeding – Proportion of children aged 0-59 months with diarrhoea receiving more, about the same or somewhat less food during the diarrhoea episode. This indicator is based on information provided by mothers or caregivers. Caregivers are asked whether their children suﬀered from diarrhoea in the two weeks prior to the survey. If so, they are then asked if (during the illness) the child received none, much less, somewhat less, about the same, or more food than usual. Children reported to have received either somewhat less, about the same, or more food than usual during the illness are considered to have received this intervention. Methodology Regional and global estimates – These are based on population-weighted averages, weighted by the total number of children under ﬁve years of age. These estimates are presented only if available data cover at least 50 per cent of total children under ﬁve years of age in regional or global groupings. The list of