also of the opinion that there were two types of medical practitioners, those who were driven by self-interest and those who had the patient’s health as their priority. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab held the view, “In case of some doctors, it is only self-interest and in case of others it is mainly usefulness of medicine the reason behind prescriptions by doctors.” However, there was a widespread notion that medical practitioners kept personal gains in consideration while prescribing medicines. Pharmacy in-charges were more skeptical about GPs and believed that most of them worked for their own financial gains and prescribed medicines accordingly. A pharmacist from Sindh mentioned, “Most of the GP work on commission basis and prescribe more medicine…” This resonated with another pharmacy in-charge from Punjab who conveyed, “Doctors while prescribing any medicine, instead of considering factors like purchasing power of the patient, consider their own business or financial interests.” Another common perception about GPs among Pharmacy in-charges was that they provided medicines themselves instead of referring to a pharmacy. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab claimed, “We rarely receive any prescription from GPs as they …have their own medical store or stock of relevant medicine.” Pharmacy in-charges categorically mentioned two factors in their responses about GPs’ prescribing behaviors through which they maximized their gains; quality and quantity of medicines. Quality of Care – There was a widespread perception that specialists prescribed better quality of medicines, while GPs prescribed low quality. This can be attributed to the view that GPs prescribed substandard medicine to achieve their personal interest. There was also a popular belief that GPs prescribed a greater number of medicines to satisfy their financial goals. A GP from Sindh was of the view that, 53 “… the main difference between Specialists and GPs is that GPs prescribe more and expensive medicines, however specialists prescribe cheap and lesser quantity of medicine.” Long Term vs. Short Term Treatment – It can be inferred that pharmacy in-charges assumed that GPs provided temporary relief, while specialists actually able to diagnose and cure the illness. A pharmacy in-charge from Sindh elaborated, “Specialists prescribe medicine to address the cause; however, the GPs prescribe medicines for the relief of pain and fever while the problem still persists.” 4.2.6.2 Placing Purchase Orders Pharmacy in-charges quite frequently stated that they arranged for new as well as existing medicines in demand, in case they went out of stock.