procurement lists) shows government financial commitment.. Efficiency and Effectiveness Advocacy on the benefits of updated commodities for replacing existing finances for alternative procurement Support to provincial health departments in sustainable implementation of integrated HLMIS through development of PC1 Medium term ++ UNICEF Project Management Team Provincial Health Departments 13. Relevant institutions prioritize capacity building of service providing staff and allocate suitable time and financial resources to the same. Policy Translation Federal and provincial governments have updated IMNCI guidelines while catering to the challenges of previous curriculum and training duration. However, there are still gaps in allocation of resources for conducting the trainings across the board. District does not have resources for conducting IMNCI trainings Efficiency and Effectiveness Leveraging resources through advocacy and involvement of relevant stakeholders Strengthen district level action planning with inclusion of trainings with required resources Engagement of donors and development partners Engagement of Nursing Council, Midwifery Associations , PPP, Healthcare Commissions relevant DoH / Health inst. for curricula revision and trainings of HCPs and CHWs Long term +++ UNICEF Project Management Team Provincial Health Departments and Districts Midterm Evaluation Report 130 Assumption Link with Project Outcomes Findings of MTE based on DAC Criteria DAC Linkage Recommendation Proposed Action Timeline Priority Prime Responsibility Supporting Role 14. Relevant stakeholders agree to update essential medicine list and minimum service delivery standards to include new areas for Pneumonia and Diarrhea control. Policy Change Federal and provincial governments have updated essential medicine list and minimum service delivery standards to include the updated commodities for Pneumonia and Diarrhea through the support of the project. Effectiveness Scale up and replication of these interventions to nonproject provinces and regions of Pakistan Evidence-based policy advocacy enhancement of geographic coverage of the interventions Long term ++ UNICEF Project Management Team Provincial Health Departments Sharing of findings of MTE with Health Departments and stakeholders of other provinces and regions of Pakistan Short term +++ UNICEF Project Management Team Provincial Health Departments 15. System provisions, resources and adequate skill sets exist to facilitate inclusion of EML in logistics management information system. Policy Implementation Gaps in systems provisions, resources and skill sets are filled through development of integrated supply chain management system for the targeted districts Impact and Sustainability Strengthening government capacity to roll out LMIS and DHIS-02 Training of provincial and district level managers on enhancing analytical skills, data interpretation skills and use of information Experience sharing through visits