and Institutional) Pakistan Requesting Section/Field Office: Health Section, UNICEF Islamabad 1. PROGRAMME AREA & SPECIFIC PROJECT INVOLVED: Health, Output 1.1.4 (Specify programme area and project activity under the approved Work Plan) 2. NATURE & PURPOSE OF CONSULTANCY: A Baseline Study conducted for a Landscape Analysis to provide insight on barriers and facilitators to policy translation and commodity access in the public and private sectors. This exercise will assist in the identification of gaps in existing relevant child survival policies and strategies in relation to GAPPD, and findings will be documented in a landscape analysis report that will include detailed mapping of key stakeholders and activities at all levels. Study Documentation Facilitation Technical Evaluation Clerical/Secretarial Others Purpose and Objectives of assignment: The objectives of the assignment are as follows: • Review and provide insight on barriers and facilitators to policy translation and commodity access in public and private sector; • Analyze and identify gaps in availability of commodities. • Assess the prescribing behaviors and treatment approaches among public and private sector service providers and vertical programs LHW program. • Assess the availability of pneumonia and diarrhea treatment medicines in public sector facilities and medical stores in the surrounding areas of private providers’ facilities. • Recommend the steps for inclusion of pneumonia and diarrhea commodities into essential medicine lists, procurement lists based on evidence-based briefing papers and policy notes including GAPPD on the benefits of Amox-DT, Zinc-DT, co-packaged ORS and Zinc, Pulse Oximeters, and Oxygen • Identification of gaps in existing policies relevant Child Survival strategies with their relevance to GAPPD; • Mapping in details of key stakeholders and activist at all levels; • Draft a framework to define the roles & responsibilities of key implementing stakeholders to utilize further for child survival working groups. • Develop a land-scape analysis report. • Recommend the steps to upgrade DHIS to include indicators on pneumonia and diarrhea. The primary intended users of this assessment will be UNICEF, US Fund and BMGF. This analysis will help in having a clear standing of existing situation, identification of gaps and recommendations for addressing these gaps. To achieve the above objectives consultants will submit their proposal to UNICEF for approval and final selection as per criteria. This analysis will also serve as basis for developing a joint accountability framework to define role and responsibilities of key implementing actors. Background: Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 203 Pakistan has the