the cornerstone of ﬂuid replacement. New elements of this approach include low-osmolarity ORS, which are more eﬀective at replacing ﬂuids than the previous ORS formulation, and zinc treatment, which decreases diarrhoea severity and duration. Important additional components of the package are continued feeding, including breastfeeding, during the diarrhoea episode and use of appropriate ﬂuids available in the home if ORS are not available. Prevention package The prevention package focuses on ﬁve main elements to reduce diarrhoea in the medium to long term: 3. Rotavirus and measles vaccinations 4. Promotion of early and exclusive breastfeeding and vitamin A supplementation 5. Promotion of handwashing with soap 6. Improved water supply quantity and quality, including treatment and safe storage of household water 7. Community-wide sanitation promotion. New aspects of this approach include rotavirus vaccination, which was recently recommended for global introduction (Box 10). In terms of community-wide sanitation, new approaches to increase demand to stop open defecation have proven more eﬀective than previous strategies. Rotavirus is a leading cause of severe diarrhoea and dehydration in children under ﬁve in both developing and industrialized countries. Accelerating the introduction of rotavirus vaccine in national immunization programmes is urgently needed, particularly in Asia and Africa, where the rotavirus burden is greatest. The ﬁrst rotavirus vaccine was licensed in the United States in 1998 and was shown to be 80 per cent or more effective in preventing severe rotavirus disease in vaccinated infants. However, the vaccine was soon withdrawn from the market, since it was associated with an increased risk for intussusception (an intestinal blockage formed when part of the intestine folds onto itself). In 2006, two new rotavirus vaccines were licensed after studies showed them to be safe and efﬁcacious in a number of middleand high-income countries. And in April 2009, WHO recommended the introduction of the rotavirus vaccine in all national immunization programmes, based on preliminary results from safety and efﬁcacy studies in African countries. Accelerating the introduction of rotavirus vaccine globally will not only prevent severe diarrhoea and dehydration among children, but will also help to strengthen other aspects of diarrhoea control. Parents and communities will need to understand that this new vaccine will only prevent a portion of all diarrhoea cases, and education about the vaccine should include promotion of other preventive strategies as well as advice for home treatment and when to seek care. Surveillance to monitor the impact of the vaccine