Stock-out of commodities at health facilities is one of the major concerns. Similarly, Zinc or amoxicillin stock-out is not reported in the DHIS. Zinc sulphate is not being purchased regularly in the public procurement. Likewise, neither zinc nor low osmolarity ORS is being regularly prescribed for the treatment of diarrhea. Nutrition program and USAID’s DELIVER project is providing support in improving government’s supply chain mechanism yet the healthcare system is up against a lot of challenges. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 69 The healthcare professionals gave numerous suggestions and recommendations for improving and strengthening the healthcare system. Child Survival Group in Baluchistan should be established on similar format as the other provinces. Procurement expertise should be introduced in the healthcare department. They also suggested that vertical programs should be aligned with programs like the LHW and MNCH Program, update policy and strategic framework for health programs such as GoBalochistan. They also demonstrated keenness in assisting a detailed landscape analysis in the province and also in developing new and improving existing strategies in combating pneumonia and diarrhea along with their implementation. They were willing to collaborate with development partners like UNICEF to implement strategies to enhance child survival in the province. KP: Perspective of the Province Interviews and discussions with personnel from the health department in KP revealed that the province has a single point agenda to achieve Universal Health Coverage. Department of Health is committed to cover 69 Million populations through Sehat Insaaf Program, a social health insurance model. Just like in Baluchistan, healthcare officials in KP showed eagerness in supporting a landscape analysis in the province and also in developing and implementing child survival strategies. They were also looking forward to collaborate with development partners in order to combat pneumonia and diarrhea in the province. Integrated Health Programs like MNCH, LHW, Nutrition and EPI, their project based work is integrated through support from DFID. However, EPI's regular budget is still Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 70 stand-alone and each sub-section is headed by a deputy director/director with an IHP PD. Disbursement of funds from the district, not from the province, is quite a challenge. Funds are transferred to the districts through PFC and each district then releases only 11% of total budget to cater for health operational expenditures. EML has been updated in 2017. Department of Health has notified very essential list of medicines for MNCH to include LO