CM-SMU in the Sindh, it therefore becomes important that the DGHS puts in place a strong monitoring system. A dedicated focal person for monitoring the progress on pneumonia and diarrhea will help to keep track of the progress. Furthermore the following factors are necessary for successful implementation of accountability for the desired outcomes (WHO, 2015). 1. Availability of these commodities entails a lot of commitment and funnelling of efforts at the top level of all the stakeholders involved. It is important that the secretaries, program directors, CEOs and other top managers are committed to advancing the culture of accountability by routinely setting the tone, leading by example, setting clear goals, roles and responsibilities and articulating expectations. It is highly important that the accountability is enforced and encouraged from the offices of the Secretaries of the all the national and provincial health departments. Furthermore, the role of the Director Generals of Health services at both the federal and provincial levels is very crucial in a number of ways. The country and provincial level leadership of the development partners like WHO and UNICEF must use their influence to generate the necessary efforts required from the Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 174 stakeholders. Furthermore, their role becomes highly important in keeping the project on track and aligned with the objectives. 2. A culture of accountability and transparency is actively promoted as a shared value and is demonstrated through the clear articulation and consistent application of rules and regulations, policies and procedures including ethical values and standards of conduct. The main role has to be played by the government and the development partners like UNICEF and WHO through the platform of Child Survival Groups. It is very important that the Child Survival group meets on the regular basis for the assessment of progress. Child survival group must make sure that the data on the progress of the project is being shared frequently and there is an environment for problem solving and collaborative participation. Furthermore, the meetings are assessed on strong scoring criteria. 3. The most critical part of this process is the level of communication between different stakeholders. It is of high importance that the Child Survival Group serves as a potent platform where the stakeholders can discuss the matters related to the implementation in a conducive environment. Outcomes heavily rely on the synergistic efforts of the different stakeholders. Therefore, a two-way communication mechanism