on integrated approach to protect, prevent and treat both the diseases (WHO & UNICEF, 2013). Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 14 Protect, Prevent and Treat Framework Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea 2013, has an ambitious goal of ending preventable childhood deaths by 2025, and to achieve that, it provides a set of priorities and interventions to scale-up progress at country level (Yao & Yang, 2014). Figure 5: Protect Prevent and Treat framework of GAPPD Source: Reproduced from, Ending Preventable Child Deaths from Pneumonia and Diarrhea by 2025: The integrated Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD), 2013. Though integrated Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea introduces a cohesive approach to ending preventable pneumonia and diarrhea deaths. But to reach every child requires a scaling-up and targeting of interventions known to prevent, and control pneumonia and diarrhea. Enabling this vision requires a coordination and Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 15 collaboration from child health related programs, parents, communities, community health workers (CHWs), civil society and private sector (WHO & UNICEF). GAPPD Goals for 2025 United Nations Global Strategy for Women’s and Children’s Health was launched in 2010 (United Nation Secretary General, 2012), based on continuum of care approach to services and with an aim to save 16 million lives. Following to it in 2012 (UNICEF, 2013) , a call to action for child survival challenged the world to reduce child mortality to 20 fewer child deaths per 1,000 live births in every country by 2035. Therefore, GAPPD has established specific goals for 2025, which are ambitious and require significant political will, commitment and mobilization of some additional resources to achieve desired results (WHO & UNICEF, 2013). Coverage targets for GAPPD protect, prevent and treat framework are also defined so as to achieve goals. Selected targets are already being monitored through a variety of processes, and progress is measured through Health information systems, Demographic Health Surveys (DHS), Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS), mortality and morbidity estimates (WHO & UNICEF, 2013). National and Provincial Policies for Childhood Illnesses GAPPD goals for eliminating preventable child deaths from pneumonia and diarrhea by 2025 are ambitious, but entirely achievable. Therefore, it recommends a continuous coordination from all stakeholders to increase political will for eliminating Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 16 pneumonia and diarrhea, foster inter-sectoral collaboration, increase efficiency through prioritization of interventions based on local context, increase investments in health policy and