of factors. These factors, both intrinsic like political will and commitment, and extrinsic like broader policy environment should all work coherently to complete the causal chain of policy change, policy translation and then its implementation and ultimately, knowledge management of the impact. Keeping this in view, the Project started off in 2016 to bring policies to build barriers between the children – girls and boys under five years of age – and two major contributors to child mortality: Pneumonia and Diarrhea. The scope of work of the Project mainly comprised of federal level support to Ministry of National Health Services Regulation and Coordination in Islamabad (MoNHSRC), Provincial Health Departments, Offices of District Health Officers (DHOs), health facilities and outreach workers in targeted districts. This midterm evaluation (MTE) was commissioned to assess the extent to which the Project was successful in achieving its intended results, and whether the stakeholders were productively involved in the causal chain of policy change, translation, implementation and knowledge management. It further explored opportunities and lessons learned. Specifically, MTE addressed the following objectives: • To assess the extent to which the intended outcomes of the project are achieved by comparing it with results from the baseline studies / evaluability assessment of the project; • To document the processes involved in achievement of the outcomes and identify gaps that has affected the project to ensure achieving the results; • To review and assess proper utilization of supplies provided to beneficiaries at public facilities and identify the gaps in utilization; • To assess the potential for replicability and scalability; and • To provide guidance for improvement and course correction in all areas and programme strategies, and targets to ensure effective achievement of the results. Methodology A formative evaluation design with a mixed methods approach (quantitative and qualitative techniques) was adopted, and both primary and secondary data was collected with gender disaggregation done wherever possible. The evaluation team worked in close collaboration with all stakeholders during various stages of the MTE. Stakeholders included federal and provincial governments, along with health facilities, outreach workers, private sector care providers, donors and development partners and the ultimate beneficiaries. The end-users and other stakeholders were involved mainly as participants, i.e. interviewees and focus group participants. Gender mainstreaming was kept in consideration while devising the data collection processes and tools. Gender balance was incorporated in the approach of the evaluation along with exploring gender differentials