they praised and appreciated good work while politely correcting any possible mistakes. The LHWs enjoyed a good rapport with their respective LHSs who often took responsibility for any mistakes on their part, but were also slightly strict so that there was no such repetition. LHWs maintained that their supervisors often arranged surprise visits to evaluate their performance and even visited patients’ households asking for feedback. They claimed that similar visits were also arranged by the higher authorities like the DHO, District Coordinator and Assistant District Coordinator. Maintenance of Records According to the LHWs, a meticulous record was kept of each case they dealt with as well as of all the referrals they provided. Records of pneumonia and diarrhea were updated daily and submitted to the LHSs and District Coordinators on a monthly basis. Routinely recorded reports, outlining all referrals made during the month were also submitted. LHWs in Punjab reported that the government wasn’t providing the referral slips allocated to use for referral and record maintenance. Consequently, they were using selfprinted alternatives, giving one copy to the patient and keeping another for record. The LHWs reported quick and comprehensive feedback from their superiors and suggested digitalization of the reporting system to ensure prompt response in case of outbreaks. Liaison with Health Facilities and Other Workers All the LHWs reported that their health facility networks did not spread beyond the centers they were linked to and stated that they did not have any linkages with higherlevel facilities like RHCs, THQHs and DHQHs. As a result, all patients were referred to Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 109 the local BHU. Although they weren’t provided with conveyance or ambulance services, most patients reported competent doctors, good treatment and supportive staff. According to the LHW interviewed in the districts covered, only a few (2 in Punjab, 1 from Sindh) had community health workers (CMWs) operating within them and the number of working CMWs were also informed to be quite insignificant. The respondents further explained that both groups shared neither informal nor formal ties, working mostly by themselves, and denied collaborating with the local CMWs for any health related services or activities. Comfort Level in the Field Though the LHWs worked within their own catchment area, most of them reported some degree of discomfort when going out onto the field; some stated they faced problems due to the troubling domestic situations and enmity between various