level? Kindly give some examples. • How can the recording and reporting of LHSs and LHWs’ services be improved? Midterm Evaluation Report 92 7. What are your in built mechanisms for monitoring and supervision of LHWSs and LHWs? • What is the current supervision policy? At which level responsibility of supervision is fixed? • Is the supervision integrated or service specific e.g. for EPI, CMWs, LHWs, etc.? • What is the role of Lady Health Supervisor regarding supervision and ensuring uninterrupted supply of commodities for LHWs? • Is there any notified schedule for supervisory visits to the community-based workers? • What are your suggestions to improve the monitoring and supervision of child health services in your province? 8. What do you think about the integration of the LHWs with other health programmes, local community, key persons, Community Based Organizations (CBOs) or elected representatives? • What is the level integration of LHWs, LHS and CMWs in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children? • What role do they play for acceptance of health services provided by LHWs? Kindly give some examples about the support they support. • What is usefulness of local community liaison? 9. What is your overall impression about the scope and scale of Pneumonia and Diarrhea case management by the LHSs and LHWs (diagnosis, treatment and referral services) in your province? • If you are asked to take measures for improvement of Pneumonia and Diarrhea case management services by LHSs and LHWs, what measures will you suggest at managerial, facility and community level? Guide for Unicef Team Interview Before starting interview, remember to: ⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit ⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of study objectives ⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 1-What measures have been taken to ensure that the existing national/provincial policies and guidelines are updated in line with global recommendations (World Health Organization (WHO)/Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD)) for management of diarrhea and pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan? a-Is there a Joint accountability framework and workplan with timelines under the stewardship of national and provincial Child Survival Groups? • Is there a Coordination mechanism in the selected province and at national/provincial levels? • What measures have you taken to ensure appropriate levels of service delivery for P&D commodities? • Is there any kind of technical support to national