short span of time. It was only possible because the project team availed all the available windows of opportunity and positioned their evidence to inform the policy change, its subsequent translation and implementation. Policies covering the entire continuum of care around childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea have been translated into actions and gained results; now requiring scaling up and replication to achieve child survival goals. The project team at all levels (M/oNHSR&C, Health Departments) critically engaged with policy makers so that opportunities are shaped for use of evidence in the policy making process. Their presence in the broader policy space and strong relationships, both in formal (steering committee, technical working groups, CSGs) and informal (networking) ways, resulted in fostering stronger association of the project with government policies and strategies on childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. During the evaluation, lobbying and networking of the project team for child survival was highly valued by the government counterparts and there was high buy-in of the project interventions from the federal and provincial policy makers and planners. Another example included the description of provincial Child Survival Group as a think tank – by a provincial policy maker – that has been supporting the policy makers through quality and relevant evidence for policy change. During the revisions and updating of guidelines, manuals, government yardsticks and information systems, the project established strong relationships to connect multiple stakeholders. This wide array of stakeholders that project directly engaged to achieve its planned outcomes included ministerial offices, health departments, their directorates, donors, development partners, district managers, health facility staff, professional associations, outreach staff, pharmaceutical manufacturers, regulatory bodies (Drugs Regulatory Authority of Pakistan and Drugs Testing Laboratory). The evaluation team trailed the dimensions of OECD/DAC Criteria to gauge the success of the project. In the following section, the policy process (policy change, policy translation, policy implementation and knowledge management) for each of the interventions stream is described along with their chemistry with project assumptions. This is followed by recommendations, proposed actions and theory of change for the remainder for the project life. Midterm Evaluation Report 66 At the level of policy change, the project had a clear analysis and expression of why, what, how and who needs to be involved and engaged to achieve policy change. Political will and commitment were evident from the stress drawn on childhood illnesses in Pakistan’s National Health Vision as well as provincial health policies and sector