and Response system in Africa). Data on household energy use are compiled, updated and reported annually by WHO. In addition, the JMP provides comprehensive reports every two years on access to water and sanitation supplies with sub-analyses on access according to location (rural/urban) and wealth quintile. Opportunities exist for linking data collection with other efforts, such as the United Nations CoIA. • Take and/or assign accountability for action Countries are accountable, to both their own populations and the global community, for reducing the burden of pneumonia and diarrhoea. Accountability ensures that the responsible party recognizes that there is an issue, and that all partners deliver on their commitment(s). It demonstrates how actions and investment translate into tangible results and better longterm outcomes, and indicates what works, what needs to be improved and what requires more attention. It comprises three main components: monitoring involves finding out what is happening where, and to whom; review involves assessing whether or not commitments have been kept; remedial action involves making recommendations to stakeholders on how to address areas in need of improvement identified in the review process. An accountability framework defines the methodology and source of data for indicators, identifies which stakeholders will be responsible for what actions and articulates the process and responsibilities for monitoring and evaluating progress. As an example, the draft GVAP (16) lays the groundwork for further development and implementation of an accountability framework at country, regional and global levels. Accountability also comes in other forms at other levels. Civil society groups as well as community and faith-based organizations can support citizens and communities in improving their health and holding governments accountable. Families and communities also have a role in local-level accountability, and local-level mechanisms to empower these groups to fill this role should be used or created. There is also increased attention to this issue at the global level. Information on core indicators will be reported annually until 2015 by the Countdown to 2015, a supra-institutional initiative that monitors coverage of key interventions as a proxy measure to mortality reduction. The United Nations CoIA has given a major impetus to the need for periodic largescale population-based surveys as a complement to national health information. Engage and embed critical partners in the overall workplan/approach • Involve other programmes and sectors Many health programmes have a role in pneumonia and diarrhoea control. For example, nutrition programmes promote 24 breastfeeding and hygiene