current management practices for the pneumonia and diarrhea need to be updated with the global recommendations. Findings suggest that the majority of the healthcare providers are not even aware of the new global recommendations. Lack of trainings on the management of pneumonia and diarrhea and no emphasis on pneumonia and diarrhea in the medical school curriculum has contributed to an overall lack of focus on pneumonia and diarrhea. It is of utmost importance that the medical school training addresses the need of treating pneumonia and diarrhea in an efficient and updated manner On the other hand; unregulated private sector presents another significant challenge for changing the prescribing behaviour of the healthcare providers in the private sector. This requires a multi-pronged strategy involving healthcare commission, professional bodies of the healthcare providers and pharmaceutical corporations. It is critically important that the healthcare providers in the public and private sector treat pneumonia and diarrhea according to the global recommendations. This change can be brought through a combination of different strategies. Comprehensive training programs, regular refresher courses and an emphasis on the pneumonia and diarrhea in the medical school training can bring the necessary focus required for the change in prescribing behaviour. The findings suggest that in addition to the above mentioned activities it would be essential to take on board organizations like FPAP and PPA for changing the prescribing behaviour in the private sector. Furthermore, the role of the nascent healthcare commissions needs to be discussed for the required change in the prescribing behaviour. Finally, pharmaceutical firms can play a very important role in changing the prescribing behaviour of the healthcare providers in the private sector. They have the ability to generate Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 179 the necessary pressure required to bring the change in the prescribing behaviour of the healthcare providers. Changing the prescribing behaviour of the physicians will require a synergy from different players. Change in the prescribing behaviour in the government sector will require a strong training mechanism. At the provincial level, the health departments strongly rely on the inputs from the provincial MNCH programs (IRMNCH in Punjab) for training and other related matters. Though the provincial program don’t have strong sanctions mechanism to implement the technical inputs but still the relationship is strong enough to implement the desired interventions. Change in prescribing behaviour in the private sector requires a multi-pronged strategy and different stakeholders. It requires involving