DHIS etc. were shared at one dashboard. It was reported, that their next phase will be interlinking information from all segments, and making it more useful and result oriented. HISDU has also prepared a “Prescription Management Information System” which will track the medicines record from the receiving till the issuance to the patient. It will also link with inventory management system. Simultaneously, the stock status was also monitored by Monitoring and Evaluation Assistants (MEAs) and they prepare monthly report of the stock status of very essential / tracer elements. The Health department, rely more on the reports of MEAs because it was considered as an external evaluation / physical count of stock status. This report indicates overall performance of health facility. Vertical programs i.e. FP&PHS and IRMNCH & NP have their own MIS covering specific indicators and they depend more on their MIS rather DHIS. The LHW program reporting mechanism is both manual and computerized. Ideally, the information provided by the LMIS; should be compiled and performed as automated functions of logistics activities. As observed the LMIS / DHIS / MIS focused the stock out status and report. There must be more automated systems to support the forecasting, resupply, transportation, monitoring of medicines dispensed to the patients as per WHO standards. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 40 Status of Inventory Control in selected districts of Sindh and Punjab 4.2.5 Section V: Forecasting It has been observed that methodology adopted for the medicines forecasting and quantification was consumption based, in which, there was no adjustments of days of stock out. Stock for lead time, and time required for the laboratory analysis were not included. Buffer stock was considered; but the methodology for calculation of buffer stock was not correct. Review period for the forecasting was one year; which caters the seasonal variations. It was also observed, that the irrational use of medicines was due to the unavailability (stock out) of first line therapy which not only creates financial burden, but also was not appreciated and recommended by WHO. The activity of medicines forecasting requires financial support; it also depends on how much data is required to be collected and analyzed. It is one of the hidden costs of the supply chain management system. It was also discovered, that medicines forecasting need proper budget allocation. This situation was observed in all districts of Sindh, Punjab, Baluchistan, KP and FATA. In Punjab,