their bargaining power over time. However, Marketing Manager of Amson Pharma Islamabad viewed profitability in a different way, “Even if profit margin remains meager and rates unchanged, it will still be profitable to produce pneumonia and diarrhea commodities, if our lab gets due recognition by the WHO and UNICEF, in lieu of this investment.” Presence of substitute Amoxicillin and Zinc have been introduced in the market in syrup form since long. In the presence of these substitutes in the market, demand for dispersible formulations may take considerable time to pick up. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 151 Site of a Manufacturing Plant “Site of a manufacturing plant also influences production decision”; said a market analyst interviewed for the landscape analysis. If the plant is located in Karachi, for instance, it will focus market all over Pakistan but if located at Peshawar, the manufacturer is likely to focus more on market demand emerging out of Afghanistan than the local market for greater profitability. Sustenance of Demand In general, sustained demand for commodity is considered a potent factor influencing production decision and sustainability. Low demand decreases profitability and adversely affects production decision. Amson started production of Zinc DT two years ago but later decided to put it on hold due to lack of demand. Similarly, as mentioned above, ZAFA is producing less than 0.5 percent of its maximum production capacity and finding it difficult to sustain production in the absence of expected increase in demand. According to a Pharmaceutical Distributor, except for a few selected institutions across the country, there was barely any demand in the market for zinc syrup or DT and low osmolarity ORS. He emphasized, “Unless there was a sustained and significant demand for these commodities, even companies having the capability and capacity would be reluctant to take a production decision.” Potential Buyers Tendering for public procurement creates a considerable demand, enough to incentivize pharma industry in initiating or enhancing production. Similarly, a demand created by a development or donor agency such as UNICEF, which is tangible in terms of business growth and profit making, may also influence production decision, said a Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 152 Marketing Analyst and Advisor. It can be safely concluded that buying by the private sector would largely depend on the success of demand creation strategy applied by the stakeholders and availability of commodities. Factors influencing Demand Affordability Affordability is an important