by 2025 are ambitious, but entirely achievable. Therefore, it recommends a continuous coordination from all stakeholders to increase political will for eliminating Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 16 pneumonia and diarrhea, foster inter-sectoral collaboration, increase efficiency through prioritization of interventions based on local context, increase investments in health policy and systems research, and strengthen accountability for results and resources (Chopra et al, 2013). Along with effective interventions, Pakistan needs a concerted action in these priority areas at national and provincial level (Qazi et al, 2015), therefore a national and provincial policies, programs for child health are reviewed to analyses the commitment at state level. National Vision for Coordinated Priority Actions National Vision for coordinated priority actions to address challenges of reproductive, maternal, newborn and child health and nutrition: ten years to better health (2016-2025), reflects an augmenting political commitment to maternal, newborn, and child health (Nishtar et al. 2013). This 10-point vision aims to provide overarching strategic guidance with regard to key actions to be undertaken by national and provincial stakeholders. Provincial ministers and secretaries of health have committed to supporting and overseeing the implementation of the national vision. The main challenge impeding further reduction of maternal and child mortality are insecurity and the countrywide maldistribution of the limited human resources in the health sector; a shortage of female doctors and paramedics at the primary healthcare level, and of skilled birth attendants at the community level; inequitable access to care; low quality of interventions and limited capacity in planning, management and evaluation; the cultural and geographic isolation of women; and poor access to improved drinking water and sanitation. There is a need to support the delivery of quality services; build capacities to improve managerial skills and ensure security of Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 17 lifesaving medicines, commodities and equipment; ensure equitable distribution of human resources with community outreach; target evidence-based, cost-effective and community-based interventions promoting education and mobilization; and encourage supportive supervision, monitoring and evaluation. A sound strategy on human resources is needed to fill the gap at primary care level along with improving the quality of training programs (MNHSR&C, 2015). National Health Vision 2016-2025 With the eighteenth amendment to the constitution of Pakistan , the subject of health was devolved to the provinces. Resultantly, the provinces developed their own health sector strategies and a National Health Vision was developed at the national level National Health Vision 2016-2025, is