relevant to child health and how consistent are the project objectives with them according to the policy makers. There was an EQ: To what extent the objectives of the project are consistent with the existing national/provincial policies and guidelines in line with global recommendations (WHO/ GAPPD) for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among under-five children in Pakistan and are sustainable? Midterm Evaluation Report 47 agreement among the respondents at policy level that project objectives are highly consistent with Pakistan’s National Health Vision (2016-2025) and priorities for child health. Federal and provincial policy makers and planners categorically mentioned that national/provincial/ policies/strategies and guidelines incorporated the global recommendations for Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Most of them believe that community case management for Pneumonia and Diarrhea is updated according to the global recommendations of WHO and GAPPD. Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD) was supported by WHO and UNICEF to help decrease in the rising mortality rates of children under 5 suffering from Diarrhea and Pneumonia. Policy makers at MoNHSR&C and provincial Health Departments shared many details about how and where policy changes have been incorporated to improve the treatment services of these illnesses. This primary focus is to attain Sustainable Development Goals and fulfil its other global health responsibilities. SDG 3 ensures healthy lives and promotes wellbeing for all at all ages. By 2030, end preventable deaths of new-borns and children under 5 years of age, with all countries aiming to reduce neonatal mortality to at least as low as 12 per 1000 live births and under-5 mortality to at least as low as 25 per 1000 live births. It was also revealed that Pneumonia and Diarrhea has been included into the 12th 5-year plan from 2019-2023. A respondent shared that in accordance with Pakistan’s National Health Vision, a 10-priority interventions document for RMNCAH was developed and translated into strategic action plans, keeping Pneumonia and Diarrhea in consideration. The ideology of National Health Vision 2016-2025 was to improve the health of all individuals, predominantly women and children through universal access to affordable quality essential health services, delivered through resilient and responsive health system. Officials from both provinces said that this project aligns with their provincial health sector strategies. The Government of Punjab, taking forward the intent of the newly elected political leadership to reform and restructure Punjab Health Sector towards beer performance, has pursued the development of ten year Punjab Health