priority for others. Nevertheless, every factor played a certain role in the parents decision-making process. Free Treatment/Medicines – Free treatment and medicines played a significant role in drawing patients to government health facilities. Cheaper and more cost effective services were one of the reasons. A parent from Sindh justified his preference, “I came here for the first time and … will come here again because they … provide medicines free of cost.” However, this was not always the case. Some parents’ priority was to provide best treatment they could to their children regardless of the cost. One of the parents expressed, “Although it is bit expensive but nothing is more precious than our children.” Nonetheless availability of required medicines was also an issue. Many respondents complained about unavailability of medicines in the health facilities, which were supposed to be providing them free of cost. This would leave the patients no option but to buy them from elsewhere resulting in hefty bills and transportation costs. Quality of Treatment – Parents also chose health facility on the basis of quality and standard of healthcare provision. A parent from Sindh acknowledged the services provided by his selected hospital, “We usually go there to get our children treated…Medical staff here is very experienced.” Another parent reiterated, “We prefer … this doctor because they …provide us good services and quality.” Patient Satisfaction – Satisfactory services and personal touch of the doctors was very important for the parents as many of them categorically pointed it out. A parent from Punjab expressed his/her despair, “… our experience is not good in government hospitals because medical staff’s behavior is not friendly towards us. They don’t pay any attention towards our complaints.” Another parent from Punjab complained, “We go through a lot of difficulty in reaching the hospital and then the doctor is not available in the hospital…” Few parents expressed their satisfaction in these words: “The doctor examined our child carefully and listened to our complaints properly.” Location, Commuting Time and Distance – The convenience of travelling to the health facility greatly impacted the parents. Most of the parents revealed that health facilities being nearer to their homes was the reason for visiting it. However, some parents had to go through the inconvenience of travelling a long way because they did not have a choice. A parent from Sindh explained, “Government medical facility is very far away from