Source: Kar, K., ‘Subsidy or Self-Respect? Participatory total community sanitation in Bangladesh’, IDS Working Paper 184, Institute of Development Studies, Brighton, UK, 2003. Washing one’s hands with soap can reduce rates of diarrhoeal disease when carried out at critical moments: after using the toilet, after cleaning a child’s bottom and before handling food. Research suggests that handwashing with soap is effective even in overcrowded and highly contaminated slums in the developing world. Studies have also pointed out that washing hands with water alone is much less effective in preventing disease than using soap. Soap breaks down grease and dirt that carry germs and disease-causing pathogens. Using soap also increases the amount of time spent washing hands, compared to water alone. Yet lack of soap does not seem to be a major barrier to handwashing: It has been found that 95 per cent of mothers in developing countries have some sort of soap product at home. To better understand ways to promote hygienic behaviour, research has been carried out regarding consumers’ handwashing habits and factors that motivate change. This research shows that key triggers for handwashing are feelings of disgust, nurture, comfort and desire to conform, rather than health concerns alone. These ﬁndings are being used to create more effective hygiene programmes. Sources: Adapted from: United Nations Children’s Fund, Global Handwashing Day (15 October): Planner’s guide, UNICEF, New York, 2008; Curtis, V., and S. Cairncross, ‘Effect of Washing Hands with Soap on Diarrhoea Risk in the Community: A systematic review’, The Lancet Infectious Diseases, vol. 3, no. 5, May 2003, pp. 275-281; Ensink, J., and V. Curtis, ‘Health Impact of Handwashing with Soap’, <www.lboro. ac.uk/well/resources/fact-sheets/fact-sheets-htm/Handwashing.htm>, accessed June 2009; Scott, B., et al., ‘Health in our Hands, but Not in our Heads: Understanding hygiene motivation in Ghana’, Health Policy and Planning, vol. 22, no. 4, May 2007, pp. 225-233. BOX 4 Handwashing with soap: A high-impact, cost-effective intervention Diarrhoeal diseases: The basics 2 13 ADEQUATE NUTRITION Undernourished children are at higher risk of suﬀering more severe, prolonged and often more frequent episodes of diarrhoea. Repeated bouts of diarrhoea also place children at a greater risk of worsening nutritional status due to decreased food intake and reduced nutrient absorption, combined with the child’s increased nutritional requirements during repeated episodes. Diarrhoea often leads to stunting in children due to its association with poor nutrient absorption and appetite loss. The risk of stunting in young