Y N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N If no, skip to 22. 21 a. What type of data are they checked against? PPPs checked stock consumption against morbidity data b. How often are they checked against each data type? PPPs normally checked before the resupply c. Who is responsible for cross-checking? District medical officer than Initially the district managers and then at a later stage the regional officers SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 92 Indicators Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs Regional officers 22 a. Is logistics information provided to the appropriate decision makers for logistics planning? Yes, the logistic information is provided to the appointed decision makers. b. What information is provided? The information was about the stock in hand, medicines consumed, the date of receiving, the quantity of last supply and the medicines demanded. c. Who provides the information? The Health facilities under the supervision of the health facility In-charge. d. Who receives the information? The Logistics staff under the supervision of DHO. e. How often? It was provided on monthly basis from health facility to the district (submission of reports is not regular). And the Annual reports are for bidding process. f. How is the information used? This information was used for procurement, and resupply purpose. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 93 1.5 Section V: Forecasting Indicators Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs 1 Describe the forecasting process In the government system, the Consumption based methodology of forecasting was observed. A complete compliance with the WHO recommendations were not observed in the forecasting process. The process of the forecasting is initiated at the regional level (provincial procurement cell) and the demand of the medicines were requested from the districts. The districts collect the demand of the health facilities in order to compile a report for submission. Based on the information provided in the report the district calculated the final quantities which were further sent for bidding process. Normally, the process is initiated at the start of fiscal year (July to June), and it takes