Outcome • Political will and commitment is essential for policy transformation and rolling out reforms agenda in Pakistan. • Joint accountability framework assisted the project in steering the progress monitoring and tracking. • Establishing oversight and coordination platforms at all levels are critical in building government ownership and steering the project activities. • Decentralization of health sector has created dichotomies among federal level and provinces. Lessons Learnt – Policy Translation Outcome • Policy translation efforts should be strongly supported through empirical evidence for development of advocacy material. • Acceptability of the care providers should be built for introduction of new/revised commodities.. • Without financial commitment of the governments, public procurement of updated commodities is not possible. • Training material should cater to the local needs in terms of its contents and duration Midterm Evaluation Report 67 providers, mainly outreach workers and primary level facilities. In order to institutionalize the recording and reporting on updated commodities, DHIS tools were revised in both provinces. However, gaps in systems provisions, resources and skill sets were required to be filled through development of integrated supply chain management system for the targeted districts. The Project has initiated its support for implementation of DHIS-2 and HLMIS. The project had identified implementing partners who have the capacity and spread across the project provinces to effectively implement the project activities in their specific areas. However, a key hurdle in policy implementation was the fact that despite the resources and capacities, the local Pharma industry lacked interest in local production due to minimal demand of updated commodities in open market. Updated federal and provincial policies and guidelines reflect the recognition of improved management as a shared goal. Now, after the project has demonstrated its effectiveness in terms of better diagnosis and treatment of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea, the lessons learnt from the implementation in two provinces should be replicated in other provinces and regions of Pakistan through knowledge management. 5.1 Proposed Theory of Change While assessing the current ToC, the evaluation team found the given TOC not adequately developed and unable to convey the pathways of change as described by the project management team. A valuable result of the discussion around the given TOC of the project was the inference shared by the management team that certain issues and challenges that need addressing for resolving bottlenecks in project implementation to ensure achievement of results needed different pathways of change.