of pneumonia or diarrhea at your health house or during home visits? Probe: i. Can you detect danger signs for referral? ii. Did you receive any training to detect danger signs of pneumonia and diarrhea? iii. Do you know how to classify pneumonia and diarrhea by using WHO guidelines? How frequently do you use these guidelines iv. Can you describe home remedies commonly used? Challenges in case handling 6. What challenges do you face while managing cases of pneumonia & diarrhea in the community? Probe: i. Do you face any challenge with respect to your skill and knowledge, and feel the need for more training? ii. Do you have sufficient supplies and equipment according to the need? iii. Do you suffer from lack of selfmotivation? If yeswhy? Health facility liaison and referral support 7. Have you established any liaison with any or more public health facilities for referral? How does health facility staff generally behave with your referred cases of severe pneumonia and diarrhea? Probe: v. Do you have linkages with higher level facilities? (e.g. RHC,THQH,DHQH & tertiary care hospital) vi. What is reported experience of patients referred to these facilities? Do they generally receive supportive and considerate treatment? Give some examples. vii. How are patients transported to referral facilities and who pays for transport charges? Do they avail facility or community ambulance services? viii. Do you keep record of referrals and feedbacks? Liaison with other Community Health Workers 8. Do you have any formal or informal liaison with other community health workers (CHWs) in your catchment area? Probe: i. Do they belong to NGO or public sector organization? Midterm Evaluation Report 112 ii. Do you consider their role supportive/productive in the management of pneumonia and diarrhea? Coordination and Monitoring Mechanisms 9. What is the usual coordination and monitoring mechanism of outreach services? Probe: iv. Describe the coordination mechanisms and working relationship between LHWs and LHSs and other departments? v. Do officials (e.g. DDOH, DOH or EDOH) usually make informed or surprised monitoring visits? vi. Do they provide supportive or traditional supervision? Do you get appreciation for good work? Case reporting and documentation 10. How pneumonia and diarrhea cases are routinely recorded and reported? Probe: i. What is the frequency of reporting? ii. Where these reports are sent? Are they entered in DHIS? iii. Do you receive feedback from health authorities? iv. Do health authorities use your data for managing