become more active in underserved areas. It also allows rural providers to learn about and have access not only to zinc, but also to other drugs and health products. It ultimately permits removal of subsidies once the rural market has been primed. Source: Adapted from USAID. Introducing improved treatment of childhood diarrhoea with zinc and ORT in India, Indonesia and Tanzania. Washington DC, POUZN Project, 2010. Improving and monitoring quality Progress on child survival is dependent on delivery of quality, appropriately funded interventions. At the country level, monitoring service quality is an essential part of programme management. Tools, guidelines and experience exist for measuring both content and process in quality improvement efforts. WHO and partners have developed facility-level quality of care indicators for maternal, neonatal and child health services. These indicators are intended for routine assessment and application of the results to improve services. Methods have also been developed to assess the quality of child health care delivered at the community level as part of the Catalytic Initiative to Save a Million Lives (70), an international partnership aimed at strengthening health systems to accelerate progress towards MDGs 4 and 5. The tools have been used in Ethiopia and Malawi and are available for adaptation and use in other settings. Participatory Community Quality Improvement 31 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) (PCQI) is a community-based strategy implemented by the Last Ten Kilometres Project (L10K) in Ethiopia, which has shown some positive results (see Box 18). Furthermore, WASH facilities within health care centres are important not just for infection control but also for overall service satisfaction and improving quality of care. Likewise, energy is required in order to provide high quality health care; for example, a reliable electrical supply is needed to ensure adequate lighting and functioning of equipment such as oxygen concentrators, as well as for the cold chain. Despite the importance of energy, a high proportion of health facilities in Africa and other regions have no electricity. Box 18. Involving communities to improve quality of care – a participatory approach used by the L10K Project in Ethiopia In some settings, the introduction of CCM has led to increased curative services for childhood illness. However, the performance and quality of most child health services is poor, thus limiting good health outcomes. The L10K Project in Ethiopia developed an approach called Participatory Community