and provincial governments in managing these childhood illnesses. Finding: Childhood P&D has been brought into limelight through the project interventions at policy and planning level. The project interventions have definitely put the much-needed focus on these childhood illnesses. Apart from changes in EML, MSDP and procurement lists, the structure of IMNCI trainings have been revised. Not only the training days have been reduced from eleven to six, but a separate module for Pneumonia and Diarrhea has been created in the IMNCI guidelines. However, quite a few respondents insisted that Pneumonia and Diarrhea should be incorporated in the medical curriculum in order to give them the attention they deserve. Majority of the respondents at policy level were aware of these changes and many also appreciated them as progressive efforts. Sustained advocacy and deliberations with the DOH at both federal and provincial levels has also led to the government concurrence on shifting to DHIS and implementation of LMIS in the province. Finding: There were multiple factors that influenced the project outcomes including certain hindering factors. There were numerous obstacles that affected the outcomes of the project. There were some barriers specific to the project while some were more general ones that are embedded in the overall system. IMNCI training component was not part of the initial design of the project however, later on it was added to strengthen the implementation process. Private sector engagement was and still remains to be a major challenge as the sector is largely unregulated while still contributing to more than 70% services. Many policy level respondents stated that it is imperative to involve the private sector, as the project cannot succeed while excluding it. Care givers/mothers’ lack of familiarity with the DTs and Lo ORS is also one of the limiting factors. At district and community levels, there are many causes for not achieving the desired outcomes of the project. Social issues like lack of resources, rapid inflation, non-availability of clean drinking water, transport and treatment expenditures etc. were frequently mentioned in this context by the community members. Respondents, especially LHWs, believed that widespread lack of education and illiteracy in the community, especially among mothers, which interferes with their ability to understand the root cause of these diseases, their preventive as EQ: What have been the major factors influencing the achievement or non-achievement of outcomes? Midterm Evaluation Report 56 well as their treatment measures. There is a