10 minutes for check-up.” A parent from Sindh was of the view, “We usually go there for getting treatment because people here are very cooperative and medicines are very good. The overall quality of treatment is very satisfactory.” Another parent expressed his/her satisfaction in these words: “The doctor examined our child carefully and listened to our complaints properly.” Location, Commuting Time and Distance – The convenience of travelling to the health facility greatly impacted the parents. Most of the parents revealed that health facilities being nearer to their homes was the reason for visiting it. However, some parents had to go through the inconvenience of travelling a long way because they did not have a choice. A parent from Sindh explained, “In our area we have limited medical services... Government medical facility is very far away from us. We don’t have any mode of transport for reaching the BHU in our side.” Nonetheless, for some parents distance was irrelevant and quality of medical service was more important. A parent from Punjab explained, “This hospital is quite far away. RHC is near to my home but doctor there does not examine properly that is why we have to come here.” Convenience of reaching the medical facility was quite subjective as for a parent travelling for two hours to reach a hospital did not amount to Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 121 any difficulty. He said, “No we don't have any problem in travelling. We reached here after 2 hours and it took 1 hour to meet the doctor.” Availability of the Doctor – Easy accessibility of doctors was one of the important factors for parents in selecting a medical facility for their children. A parent from Sindh asserted that how important availability of doctor was for him, “Treatment is free of cost here and pediatrician is also available in this hospital, however pediatrician is not available in other hospitals. We have no doctor in our area.” Another parent shared a similar view, “This hospital is nearby our home and the main thing is that the child specialist is always available in that hospital…” Many parents also complained that that accessibility of doctors and other medical services should be 24 hours. Long Waiting Time – Long waiting time before seeing the doctor was a big cause of concern for majority of parents. Many expressed their frustration about crowded spaces and long waiting