to receive high impact interventions than those in the richest quintile (see Figure 6). These populations are also the least likely to have access to improved water and sanitation (53) or to have access to clean, safe household energy services (54). This situation demands strengthened efforts to reach disadvantaged populations and to achieve universal coverage of relevant interventions. Equity should be ensured by prioritizing interventions that reach children at the highest risk of death and severe morbidity from pneumonia and diarrhoea (10, 55), and should be incorporated into the planning for scale-up of interventions as well as the assessment of national progress (56). Several strategies show promise for improving coverage of effective interventions— and, in some cases, health outcomes in children. Promising strategies include: expanding roles for lay and CHWs; shifting tasks, as appropriate, to lower-level workers; reducing financial barriers; increasing human-resource availability and geographical access; and engaging with the private sector to procure and deliver interventions and services (57). Figure 6. Coverage inequity by intervention 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Early initiation of breastfeeding DTP3 immunization Measles immunization Vitamin A supplementation Oral rehydratation therapy Care seeking for pneumonia Richest 20% Poorest 20% Median Source: The Countdown to 2015 equity database 18 Humanitarian emergencies Pneumonia and diarrhoea are leading causes of death in children less than five years of age in emergencies and fragile, at-risk settings. Emergencies have been increasing in number and frequency, putting more communities at risk and challenging the response capacity of national and international actors (59). These situations disrupt or destroy health systems and services, ultimately affecting their ability to reach children with interventions. Increasing capacity to protect, prevent and treat common illnesses such as pneumonia and diarrhoea, and to prevent outbreaks of these diseases is critical to improving child survival in humanitarian emergencies. Vaccination, safe drinking-water, sanitation and hygiene are usually immediate priorities (60). Provision of services during disaster relief provides opportunities to make more sustainable improvements in access to water, sanitation, energy and health facilities. Urbanization Hundreds of millions of children in urban areas are being raised in overcrowded and unhygienic housing structures and communities (61). Such conditions facilitate the transmission of disease, notably pneumonia and diarrhoea, and drive up child mortality. While urban areas are home to the majority of modern health facilities, many urban children are deprived of even rudimentary services. Lower levels of immunization and/or pockets of under-vaccinated children (including