level, conducting in-depth interviews and focus group discussions b) Work Experience: • Minimum 10 years of relevant work experience in the areas of multi-sector program planning, conducting baseline/landscape analysis, monitoring and evaluation. The consultant/s should have demonstrable expertise in evaluation/research design, literature review, Results Based Management (RBM) and evaluations (preferably baseline/landscape analysis). • Experience in the area of Public health, MNCH/ Child Health programming in Pakistan. • Previous work experience with UNICEF and/or UN/Government and Int Organizations is desirable. • Previous experience with Baseline and Landscape analysis is desirable. c) Language Proficiency: • Excellent oral and written communication skills in English. d) Competency Profile: Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 207 • An action-oriented approach and strong drive for results. • Highly developed negotiation and communication skills. • High tolerance for operating in an environment characterized by uncertainty and ambiguity and working with people, showing respect to their views and contributions. 9. TECHNICAL EVALUATION CRITERIA AND WEIGHT ALLOCATION BETWEEN TECHNICAL AND PRICE PROPOSAL Qualifications of team leader and team members (with Team composition) Masters or PhD level in Public Health/developmen t studies/social sciences /Statistics/data management Range and depth of organizational previous experience & Technical expertise and in conducting baseline/landscape analysis including data collection & analysis, health facility assessment, household survey and conducting FGDs with sample of previous work and client reference Proposed Methodology and approach with work plan of implementation of the tasks as per ToRs. Implementation strategies and quality control mechanism Completeness of responseUnderstanding of assignment by proposer and the alignment of Proposal submitted with the ToR Previous Experience of working with UNICEF/UN agencies/Int. organizations/Gov ernment especially in Sindh and Punjab Understanding of health system, health structure and community set up in Punjab and Sindh Total Marks 10 20 30 20 10 10 100 10. SUPERVISION: 10.1 Name of Supervisor: Dr. Hanadi Mostafa, Health Specialist, Health Section with technical guidance PMER Section, Ms. Mussarrat Youssuf, Research and Evaluation Specialist. 10.2 Type of Supervision that will be provided (Please be as clear as possible.): Overall supervision of the Assignment and provision of guidance and support to technical areas of the assignment. 11. ESTIMATED COST OF CONSULTANCY: 11.1. Is funding available? Yes No If yes please state grant/WBS (Funding Source): Health SC150645 11.2. Details of Costs for this Activity: (Includes consultancy fee plus travel & any other anticipated costs) *Please ensure prior consultation and agreement with HR section as stated in “Review