how much data is required to be collected and analyzed. It is one of the hidden costs of the supply chain management system. It was also discovered, that medicines forecasting need proper budget allocation. This situation was observed in all districts of Sindh, Punjab, Baluchistan, KP and FATA. In Punjab, the Primary and secondary Healthcare Department has developed e-Procurement system, which is organized through software developed by Punjab Information Technology Board. It is a system through which the medicines were forecasted, based on the consumption based methodology provided by Policy and Strategic Planning Unit (PSPU). The system has improved the availability of medicines in tertiary care hospitals / teaching hospitals. The need to compare the consumption based methodology with morbidity based forecasting is still required to promote the rational utilization of medicines. In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, particularly in Health department, the medicines forecasting became a part of their agenda. They had developed the computerized tool for medicines forecasting and quantification. This tool developed for KP health department was able to conduct forecasting of all health facilities, with both techniques i.e. morbidity and consumption method based on WHO recommendations. It was observed that the data provided by the DHIS for morbidity SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 41 based forecasting and quantification had limitations which created hurdles for the morbidity based medicines forecasting and quantification methodology. In Sindh, the Public private partners (PPHI, IHS, and HANDS), considered the importance of morbidity based forecasting and quantification. As per the recommendation of WHO, if there were no stock out, consumption based methodology can also be applied. The comparison of morbidity, consumption based method of forecasting and quantification; promotes the rational utilization of medicines. It was observed that PPP compared the consumption based and morbidity based forecasted data. Such techniques should be shared with the government staff for the capacity building. 4.2.6 Section VI: Obtaining Supplies/Procurement Procurement is the process of purchasing supplies; directly from national or multinational, private or public supplier. Procurement of medicines in public sector followed the government procurement rules. For larger quantities, the process of bids was followed. The bidding process is based on the estimated quantities from the districts. While with the estimating budget, special care is required for procurement of the medicine and equipment. This includes the actual expenditure incurred from Jan to May 2017, and the estimated needs for the remaining days of May & June, 2017. This