were made to collect district-wise commodities distributed, this data could not be obtained from FATA, KP and Punjab. Hence, data of total commodities procured for the whole of the province was used. 3. For FATA, data of procurements through development budget could not be obtained. Only data related to quantities and unit costs of procurement of ORS was provided. 9 3. Study Findings 3.1. Introduction Pakistan has one of the highest levels of infant mortality in the World. Around half of moralities are caused by diarrhoea, pneumonia and malaria. As per the Pakistan Health and Demographics Survey of 2012-13, around 23% of children under the age of 5 had diarrhoea two weeks before the survey, 1 in 9 children suffering from diarrhoea received no treatment at all, 61% were taken to appropriate health provider, 62% of children did not receive appropriate ORS (Oral Rehydration Solution) treatments, and only 1.5% received zinc appropriately. Similarly, 16% of children under the age of 5 had acute respiratory infection (ARI) / pneumonia two weeks before the survey, 59% suffering from pneumonia receive no treatment, and 42% with ARI received antibiotics While Pakistan has a national immunisation programme, there is currently no vaccine7 administered for diarrhoea and in the country. As per PHDS, diarrhoea remains a leading cause of childhood morbidity and mortality in developing countries. Unfortunately, despite simple treatment guidelines, 53,300 children die of diarrhoea each year, and there was an average of four to six episodes of diarrhoea per child per year. Diarrhoea is a major cause of mortality and morbidity among Pakistani children despite decades of concerted efforts and special programs’8. Similarly, around 91,000 children die of pneumonia each year in Pakistan. The government spent9 between 0.5% to 0.8% of GDP annually on health over the past 10 years. Analysed as proportion of national income (GDP) and per capita investment, this level is on the lower side when compared against other regional economies having similar models of public health care services10. In addition to inadequacy of public resources, there are questions on the equity, and efficiency on the use of public funds. Out of pocket expenditure in the country is high at 65% as per National Health Accounts 2005-06. 3.2. Estimating the current level of funding commitment by government towards purchase of commodities for treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea 3.2.1. Commodities currently used for the treatment During the visits to 44 health