at the Federal level and in the province of Punjab contain Amoxicillin and Zinc in the “Solid Oral Dosage Form.” Sindh and Punjab have already incorporated the dispersible tablets (DTs) in the provincial essential medicine lists and the process of updating the IMNCI guidelines has also been initiated. USAID USP-PQM is assisting in promoting the quality of medicines in Pakistan. Sindh and Punjab have already made progress in updating the health information systems which reflect the global recommendations and also LHW MIS. However, some issues like mention of Pneumonia in health information systems, still needs to be added. Conclusion & recommendations: • There is a critical need for advocacy at policy level to raise priority of Pneumonia and Diarrhea as diseases causing high mortality and morbidity at national level. • The office of DGHS should have a dedicated focal person for Pneumonia and Diarrhea for monitoring purposes. • Forums like Chief Minister Special Monitoring Unit can be utilized to provide a great opportunity for enhancing priority of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and for monitoring of its implementation. • Recommendation of establishing Child Survival Groups should be made mandatory upon the government. • The crucial role of community health workers should be recognized and harnesses in reducing mortality and morbidity caused by Pneumonia and Diarrhea, hence programs like LHWs program should be further strengthened. 115 8.2 CLINICAL MANAGEMENT PRACTICES A general understanding was prevalent among almost all stakeholders that lack of hygiene, poor sanitation and unclean drinking water were the root causes of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Concept of dispersible tablet was not popular amid stakeholders, especially among facility and pharmacy in-charges. “Tablet” was instantly perceived as a substance hard for children to swallow, hence unsuitable for their consumption. Facility in-charges underscored the importance of the LHWs in managing Diarrhea and Pneumonia and highlighted the need for motivating and incentivizing them. Issues including lack of funds and logistic support for training, inadequate budget for medicines and their undersupply, poor ambulance service etc. were also emphasized. There was certain level of awareness, acceptability and availability of Low Osmolarity ORS but there wasn’t much awareness or acceptability of Zinc nor were they informed about its availability and practical usage. General practitioners expressed concern over lack of access to clean drinking and that being a major cause of childhood illnesses. They were extremely enthusiastic about training sessions on Pneumonia and Diarrhea in near future. Pharmacy in-charges