commodities. A common opinion exists among the policy makers that UNICEF, provides support for the updating of DHIS software and tools and in the establishment of DHISII and its linkages with LMIS. Last but not the least, Knowledge Management through translation of lessons learned from this investment to other settings/broader geographical scopes within Pakistan have been carried out starting from the implementation phase. Policy and decision makers from two other provinces (Baluchistan and KPK) are a part of Federal RMNCAH & N technical working group and are informed on key decisions and lessons learned under this project during these meetings. Finding: There are numerous factors that hindered the availability of recommended commodities for management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea in open market. The market for recommended commodities for management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea is not very developed. The most salient market challenges observed for DTs are around awareness and availability. General Practitioners and Pharmacy in-charges highlighted that there was limited awareness and availability of DTs in the open market. Majority of the GPs, were not aware about the benefits of DTs and L-ORS and amongst those who were aware of L-ORS and DTs there is still a preference for regular ORS and syrups. A common perception among the pharmacy incharges was lack of demand for DTs by the caregivers and private health care providers. The prescribing practices of the private health care providers were not in align with the Global Health recommendations. There is a lack of understanding on the benefits and usage of DTs by the consumers leading to a general preference for Syrups. Amoxicillin and Zinc have been introduced in syrups form since long. In the presence of these substitutes in the market, demand for dispersible formulations is not very high. Presence of a substitute affects the prescribing behavior and uptake of these commodities. In general, sustained demand for commodity is considered a potent factor influencing production decision and sustainability. Low demand decreases profitability and adversely affects production decision. Unless there is a sustained and significant demand for these commodities, even companies having the capability and capacity would be reluctant to take a production decision. Finding: The project has added value by improving management practices of healthcare providers, mainly outreach workers and primary level facilities. The project has added value by improving management practices of healthcare providers, mainly outreach workers and primary level facilities. There was an