allocation and methods to improve forecasting at the provincial and sub-provincial levels. 2.2. Scope of the Study The study was carried out for Balochistan, FATA, Federal Government, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab and Sindh. This study does not include analysis for Azad Jammu and Kashmir, and Gilgit Baltistan. In the above geographical locations, the study focuses on public sector health provision for the treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia in children under the age of 5. More specifically the study included costs incurred on treatment of the two diseases by the civil government including: 1. Departments of health and district governments (district health offices / chief executive officers), 2. Vertical health programmes (lady health workers programme, community midwives’ programmes, and nutrition programme), 3. Special programmes run by the government (e.g. control of diarrhoea disease programme in Sindh), 4. Autonomous government hospitals, and 5. Outsourced health provision at the primary level under public-private-partnership model. 5 The study excludes costs of treatment incurred by the military through the government’s defence budget. The military on average spends around 4%5 of total health expenditure in the country. The study used data of 132 districts across Pakistan which includes 6 regions and 7 agencies in FATA. The data was largely collected from provincial authorities. To review health treatment of the two diseases offered by the private health facilities, discussions were held with 3 private clinics in Punjab. 2.3. Key Informant Interviews To undertake this study, key informant interviews were held with health facilities, warehouses and lady heath workers in 6 districts of Sindh and 4 districts of Punjab. A total of 44 health facilities and 5 warehouses were visited. Table 1: Health Facilities Visited The aim of the visits was to: • Study the system of forecasting of commodities required for treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia, • Study existing prescription practices, • Document the budgetary management system in the health facilities especially budget demands, budget releases, and reporting mechanisms, and • Understand the system of procurement, management of medicine stock outs, and treatment guidelines and practices. Key informant interviews were also held with provincial departments of health (including vertical health programmes), departments of finance, departments of planning and development and outsourced entities (e.g. PPHI and IHS in Sindh) to understand methods of budget making, funds releases and expenditure management. In addition, discussions were also held with doctors in private clinics to understand treatment offered by the private sector