also placed in extra room, corridors, garage etc. Whereas, warehouses of the PPP have sufficient space, due to the increase in the frequency of supplies. It has increased to manage the stocks in the available space. Health facilities have insufficient spaces especially for DHQs and THQs. The storage space provided to the RHCs and BHUs is also insufficient. 9 How does the program cope with inadequate storage space at the different levels: 10 Does the program have plans for meeting storage requirements for at least the next five years? Yes, the government of Sindh is planning to construct ae purpose build warehouse in each district. 11 Describe the program’s plans for accommodating growth (e.g., infrastructure, distribution, etc.). Sindh: The health department of Sindh, has planned to construct a warehouse at each division that will facilitate the storage of medicines. Punjab: The infrastructure for the temperature regulation (AC) has been provided at the district medicines storage warehouses, while the health facility level is still without AC. 12 12. Specify storage conditions that need improvement, if any (e.g., cleanliness, organization, temperature, building structure, Storage temperature, infrastructure including racks and pallets SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 113 Indicators Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs etc.). 13 a. Is there a procedure for recording complaints about product quality at all levels? b. If yes, how are they handled? Product quality complains can be recorded at any level. If supplied medicines were not up to the standards (labeling) they are returned to the supplier and get the replacement. If the supplied medicines have quality issue, like, spurious drugs government can take legal actions. 14 14. Are visual / lab quality assurance inspections of products conducted at the storage facility at the following levels: Regional? 0.33 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y y Y Y Y Y Y 1 Y Y Y Y District? 0.33 Y Y Y N N N Y 0 Y N Y Y Y Y N Service delivery point? 0.33 Y Y Y N N N N N Y na N N N N NA 15 Are there written procedures or guidelines for destroying damaged and expired products? 1 Y Y Y N N N N N Y N N N N 1