Nepal 14 million Niger 11 million Viet Nam 10 million Mozambique 10 million Preventing and treating childhood diarrhoea: Where we stand today 3 Just 37 per cent of infants in developing countries are breastfed for the ﬁrst six months of life The proportion of children fully protected by vitamin A has increased fourfold since 1999 Source: United Nations Children’s Fund, The State of the World’s Children 2010, UNICEF, New York (forthcoming). Data are insufﬁcient for East Asia & Paciﬁc. FIGURE 10 FIGURE 11 21 dren under ﬁve years of age are stunted in Africa, and nearly half in South Asia. Breastfeeding Over the past decade, there has been some progress in exclusive breastfeeding rates among infants in the ﬁrst six months of life across the developing world, and particularly in Africa. Despite these advances, overall levels remain low, and only 37 per cent of infants in developing countries are exclusively breastfed for the ﬁrst six months of life (Figure 10). Micronutrient supplementation Vitamin A supplementation rates have increased signiﬁcantly in recent years. Coverage of children aged 6-59 months with at least one dose of vitamin A per year has increased by nearly 50 per cent since 1999. Moreover, between 1999 and 2007, coverage of children considered fully protected by vitamin A – that is, receiving two doses per year – increased nearly fourfold in developing countries (Figure 11). Progress was made possible through innovative strategies that included combined delivery with other high-impact interventions for health and nutrition. Reaching the poorest children and those living in rural areas, who are most at risk of vitamin A deﬁciency, remains the greatest challenge. Zinc is important for normal growth and development and for reducing childhood diarrhoea cases. Yet data on improving children’s zinc status as a key prevention measure are not available. Immunization Only a few, mostly highand middle-income countries include rotavirus vaccine in their routine immunization schedules. WHO recently recommended introduction of the vaccine in all routine schedules, and data to monitor its coverage in many countries are expected to follow implementation. Deaths due to measles have declined rapidly in recent years. Between 2000 and 2007, global mortality attributed to measles was down by 74 per cent.38 This decrease in deaths is generally credited to increases in routine measles immunization coverage, coupled with improvements in follow-up campaigns that provide second opportunities for children to get immunized. However, more work is needed to