of drugs but for stock outs write the number of months for which medicine was not available) Drugs for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Treatment Current status Stock Outs * (July 2018 June 2019) Available Not Available/Expire d D1 Syrup Amoxicillin D2 Amoxicillin Dispersible Tablets (DT) D3 Injection Amoxicillin D4 Pneumococcal Vaccine D5 Syrup Zinc D6 Zinc Dispersible Tablet (DT*) D7 Low osmolarity ORS packets D8 LORS-Zinc Co-packaging D9 Ringer lactate Solution D10 0.45% Normal Saline/ Dextrose Saline • DT (Dispersible tablet) • Note: Please check the Stock register (medicines/supplies) for stock outs and write number of months for mentioned period Midterm Evaluation Report 116 E Record keeping and Reporting ( (Mark ü for yes or No) Material Available Updated Yes No Yes No E1 OPD Register E2 In-patients Register E3 Stock Register (Medicine/Supplies) E4 Stock Register (Equipment/Furniture) E5 Facility Monthly Report Form • OPD (Out-patient Department) 1. I‘d like to know about main childhood related illnesses in your catchment area. Can you please comment on the caseload of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Probes: i. About what proportion of children (less than 5 years) is brought to your clinic that suffer from Pneumonia and Diarrhea? ii. What is your view about the major causes of spread of these diseases in your community and how can this be prevented? iii. What type of treatment approach or professional help is commonly preferred in the community for these diseases (e.g. self-treatment, traditional healer, homeopathic, allopathic – public or private)? 2. I would like to know about your skills/competence for managing childhood illnesses? Can you please tell us about any training(s) received since you have been practicing for dealing such diseases? Probes: i. What in your view is the importance and benefits of in-service trainings for enhancing skill/competence to manage childhood illness, particularly Pneumonia and Diarrhea? ii. When was the last time you received such training? If no, what could be the reason for not arranging such trainings? iii. Who usually arrange such trainings (like Health Department, development partners or pharmaceutical companies)? iv. What is your preference for the venue of such trainings and why? v. What deficiencies did you notice in these trainings? In your view, how can these be improved? vi. If you have received training, did any refresher follow it? If no, what could be the reason for not providing refresher training? 3. Now, I would like to know about the use of protocols