answered saying it might generate a positive response from the community. Similarly, many assumed that they would not be able to win over community support due to various factors. However, some maintained that if doctors prescribed them regularly, they might become popular in the community. 4.2.4.2 Practicality Practicality of DTs brought various aspects of its usage under question by the facility in-charges. The factors that were the cause of their concern included quantity/dosage, solubility in water, oral intake/ ease in swallowing, taste and smell. A facility in-charge from Sindh discussed the viability of DTs elaborately, “I don’t think that DTs are more effective or suitable than the syrups… according to my knowledge, DTs are tasteless, do not dissolve properly in water and patients can’t remember their dosage. DTs are also unavailable.” A facility in-charge from Punjab shared, “Community’s perception about DTs is not positive as such. They don’t like using DT because it has no taste, it is difficult to swallow and does not smell good.” This resonated with another facility in-charge from Sindh who added on the taste aspect, “… sometimes people can refuse DTs because of bitter and unpleasant taste.” 4.2.4.3 Inventory Management of Medicines Mostly facility in-charges claimed that there were no stock outs. However, majority shared their grievances in this regard and suggested improvement in inventory management of the medicines. 48 4.2.4.4 Inadequacy of Budget Many facility in-charges complained of inadequate budget and a need for an increase. A facility in-charge from Punjab vented, “… Supplies are not according to the demand... overall budget of medicines and LP budget should be increased.” Some facility in-charges mentioned that due to limited budget, patients were asked to buy medicines from elsewhere and some of them could not afford the purchase. Hence, facility in-charges insisted that government should increase the budget so everyone could avail the free service. A facility incharge from Sindh reflected, “Budget should be increased, quality of medicines should be improved and the delivery process of the medicines should be made fast and prompt.” 4.2.4.5 Undersupply of Medicines Most of the facility in-charges denied being provided with adequate stock of medicines to meet the demand. They believed that their estimations, patterns of diseases and seasons should be kept under consideration while providing supplies. They held limited budget responsible for insufficient supplies. A facility in-charge from Sindh explained, “If we demand the medicines for 1000 patients, the