partners and the ultimate beneficiaries. The end-users and other stakeholders were involved mainly as participants, i.e. interviewees and focus group participants. Gender mainstreaming was kept in consideration while devising the data collection processes and tools. Gender balance was incorporated in the approach of the evaluation along with exploring gender differentials and possible discriminatory practices against girl child. An evaluation framework was developed considering the evaluation objectives and evaluation questions as per OECD/DAC components of evaluation. Main Findings Findings of the evaluation are described under each component of the OECD/DAC Criteria for Evaluation. Relevance was assessed to determine the extent to which the project suited the priorities and policies of the target group, recipient and donor. Findings revealed that there is high Midterm Evaluation Report ix relevance of the project as Pneumonia and Diarrhea contribute extensively to childhood deaths in Pakistan. Empirical evidence supported the use of updated commodities as per the GAPPD recommendations and guidelines of WHO for management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Further, it was affirmed that the project objectives are highly consistent with Pakistan’s national vision and priorities for child health. Effectiveness was assessed to determine the extent to which the project was able to attain its objectives. Resultantly, the project updated national and provincial policies and guidelines in line with GAPPD recommendations, however implementation of these policies at district and community level needs to be strengthened. Effective coordination mechanisms between federal and provincial levels were established in the form of National RMNCAH&N TWG and provincial child survival TWGs. Reporting tools on facility (DHIS tools) and community level data (LHW MIS tools) were updated with inclusion of new commodities and indicators in alignment with GAPPD recommendations and WHO guidelines. The project engaged community level health workers – Lady Health Workers, and provision of ARI timers has empowered LHWs and improved their ability to manage ARI and timely refer Pneumonia. Efficiency measured the outputs – qualitative and quantitative – in relation to the inputs and the project was able to achieve its planned milestones and outcomes within the stipulated timeline. There were numerous factors, mainly related to limited demand that hindered the availability of recommended commodities for management of childhood pneumonia and diarrhea in the open market. The project has added value by improving management practices of healthcare providers, mainly outreach workers and primary level facilities and majority of these facilities had adequate supply of P&D recommended commodities