the health monitoring. It was found that the districts planned monitoring and supervisory visits at the district level. A monitoring and evaluation cell in the office of the Director General Health Services gathers all the data. A dedicated focal person is responsible for the monitoring of vertical programs and prioritized health challenges Punjab has made significant progress in the accountability of health related interventions. It was found that each district of Punjab has a District monitoring officer. This official has a dedicated team of MEAs (Monitoring and Evaluation Assistants). These MEAs report specified indicators on android platforms developed by the Punjab Information Technology board. These indicators are then compiled in the PITB later to be shared with the Policy and Strategic Planning Unit and the Chief Minister of Punjab’s Special Monitoring Unit. Policy and Strategic Planning Unit was found to have a played major role in the monitoring related processes of the Punjab government. One of its responsibilities was to ensure monitoring and accountability in the health related interventions. More importantly, it was found to be responsible for ensuring commodities availability through monitoring in the public health sector facilities of Punjab. Chief Ministers Special Monitoring Unit (CM-SMU) is tasked with the accountability related to the prioritized areas of intervention in the Punjab. These areas cover health, education, Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 67 law and order, Livestock, Clean drinking water, Municipal waste management. The district health managers are made accountable on monthly basis on the prioritized areas. These managers are then made accountable on their quarterly progress before the Chief Minister. This monitoring system has arguably created a huge sense of accountability within the health sector management of the province. Moreover, it was an overwhelming suggestion by the technical experts and the health managers that there is a mechanism in place that continually conducts research on the different facets of pneumonia and diarrhea. They stressed that it is important to dig deep into the epidemiology of the pneumonia and diarrhea to create the local evidence for action both at the clinical and management level. Baluchistan: Perspective of the Province Interviews and discussions with personnel from the health department in Quetta revealed that their healthcare system is relatively less developed than those in other provinces. According to the respondents, political commitment and willingness towards refining the health system exists, however, the capacity and ability to implement the improvements is missing. Public