diarrhea and pneumonia, its severity classification, management or treatment, so I cannot comments on it. These guidelines are very useful for childhood disease management.” Another one further elaborated holding the government responsible, “Guidelines or protocols about pneumonia and diarrhea are not available here. Charts are available and those are given by the USAID. DHIS books are also available at this health facility. There is nothing about diarrhea and pneumonia in the shape of booklets or instructions (SOPs). Health department doesn’t even hold meetings due to shortage of funds, so why would they provide booklets for treatment of diarrhea and pneumonia?” Facility Management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia Access to equipment varied depending on which facility the respondent represented. Some facilities claimed they were well equipped to treat pneumonia patients, and Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 81 respondents even said they had the support of their designated higher-ups, stating that shortcomings were met with encouraging responses. A facility in-charge from Punjab supported this notion, “We don’t have any shortage of equipment or medicines at our facility. If there is any such lacking, we demand supply of such material from the relevant department and receive a positive response.” However, there were also respondents that reported negligence and disinterest on the part of higher authorities when it came to lack of equipment. This in turn led to the facilities being ill equipped and hence incompetent in dealing with pneumonia and diarrhea cases. A facility in-charge from Sindh complained, “In our health facility, there are no oxygen cylinders because authorities didn’t provide us with them.” An in-charge from Punjab added, “Chest x-ray is essential for the diagnosis of pneumonia. This facility is not available in our premises.” Ambulance services seemed to be dismal and lacking according to most of the responses. Many facilities didn’t have access to ambulances at all and the ones that did, faced problems with funding for usage and maintenance. A facility in-charge from Punjab highlighted poor management of ambulance service, “… for severe cases, we call 1122 for ambulance. We have issues of administration and management of ambulance as it now under 1122.” A facility in-charge from Sindh revealed, “We have an ambulance but, due to the shortage of fuel, it is on stand.” Almost all responses indicated that severe cases were referred to higher facilities due to lack of required expertise and inadequate equipment to deal with severe cases. A