(out of pocket expenditure) To estimate out of pocket expenditure incurred on treatment of diarrhoea and pneumonia, the following method has been used: Total quantitative requirement of morbid population X (times) percentage of out of pocket expenditure as provided in National Health Accounts of 205-06 X (times) cost of commodities and treatment in the private sector. 2.4.5. Commodities Provided by Donors In addition to expenditure carried out by the public sector (government, public sector enterprises, etc.), the health care services are also provided by the development partners, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and the private sector in the country. Since the largest amount of expenditure is carried out by the government, this study will predominately review the government’s budget6 on procurement of drugs and supplies. In addition, efforts will also be made to gather information on procurement of drugs and supplies for diarrhoea and pneumonia by the development partners (e.g. USAID, WHO, UNICEF, etc.). 6 Including budget spent through vertical health programmes (e.g. Lady Health Workers), budget spent through outsourced service delivery (e.g. Rural Support Programme, People Primary Health Care Initiative, etc.), and sub-provincial levels (e.g. District Health Officers, CEOs in districts in Punjab) 8 2.5. Study of Budget performance and implementation challenges To understand the budget performance and implementation challenges at provincial and sub-provincial levels key informant interviews were held with 44 health facilities in 10 districts in Punjab and Sindh were undertaken. In addition, interviews were held with provincial finance departments (including vertical health programmes), departments of health, departments of planning and development. Discussions were also held with outsourced entities (e.g. PPHI, and IHS in Sindh). 2.6. Data Caveats While efforts have been made to collect up-to-date and relevant data, there are however, certain caveats: 1. The PDHS, MICS and PSLM surveys were not available for the latest year (2016-17) and hence it was difficult to estimate the exact disease burden of diarrhoea and pneumonia to calculate budgetary gap. In addition, these surveys presented information of disease prevalence in the past two weeks of the survey holding. A more frequent data collection would provide relatively better information. 2. While efforts were made to collect district-wise commodities distributed, this data could not be obtained from FATA, KP and Punjab. Hence, data of total commodities procured for the whole of the province was used. 3. For FATA, data of procurements through development budget could not be obtained. Only data related to quantities