contributions from the private sector for monitoring and evaluation Cleaner energy access in Indonesia Conversion of more than 40 million homes from polluting kerosene cooking to LPG was achieved through cooperation between the government and the national oil company Pertamina, with involvement of individual kerosene suppliers encouraged to switch to LPG provision. There are many other examples of cooperation between the public sector, producers and NGOs in the development and promotion of improved stoves and cleaner fuels. Source: (68, 69) 30 Box 16. United Republic of Tanzania: Accredited drug dispensing outlets—Duka la Dawa Muhimu Duka la dawa baridi (DLDB) are authorized to provide nonprescription medicines to the private sector in the United Republic of Tanzania. With an estimated 4 600-plus stores, DLDB constitute the largest network of licensed retail outlets for purchasing medicines. The accredited drug dispensing outlet (ADDO) project aimed to improve access to affordable, quality medicines and pharmaceutical services in retail drug outlets in rural or periurban areas where there are few or no registered pharmacies. To achieve this goal, the Strategies for Enhancing Access to Medicines (SEAM) Program took a holistic approach that combined changing the behaviour and expectations of individuals and groups who use, own, regulate or work in retail drug shops. For shop owners and dispensing staff, this was achieved by combining training, incentives, consumer pressure and regulatory coercion with efforts to affect client demand for, and expectations of, quality products and services. A SEAM Program evaluation of the ADDO shops in 2004 compared them with a control group of DLDB. The key lessons learned included: • Pharmaceutical services in developing countries can be substantially improved through training, accreditation and regulation of private-sector drug sellers, but supervision and monitoring are needed. • Broad-based support from all stakeholders from the public and private sectors is crucial for the project’s design and implementation. • Defining the appropriate, country-specific mix of publicand private-sector responsibilities in a drug seller initiative is critical for timely scale-up and sustainability. • Owner, dispenser and local regulatory/inspector training, as well as supervision and mentoring, is expensive and time consuming and needs to be adequately addressed when developing sustainability and rollout strategies. Source: Adapted from Tanzania: Accredited Drug Dispensing Outlets— Duka la Dawa Muhimu on the Management Sciences for Health, Rational Pharmaceutical Management Plus, website http://www.msh.org/projects/ rpmplus/WhereWeWork/Africa/ADDOs.cfm, accessed 5 September 2012. Box 17. Using the informal private sector to improve quality of care with