Boxes 3 and 4 for further examples of cross-sectoral collaboration.). Box 3. Sanitation and household water treatment as a focus point for cross-sectoral collaboration Sanitation is often considered ‘another sector’, but in many countries it falls under the remit of the MoH. In several countries, the MoH is involved in cross-sectoral collaboration to improve water and sanitation. For example: Mali: In Mali, the MoH released a strategic plan (2011-2015) that specifically focuses on diarrhoeal disease prevention and control through hygiene promotion. The plan outlines responsibilities across different stakeholders and ministries. The MoH oversees IMCI, which includes WASH messages. Community-led total sanitation is being scaled up, led by the Ministry of Environment and Sanitation but in collaboration with the MoH. Ethiopia: Ethiopia has a Memorandum of Understanding between the MoH, Ministry of Water and Energy and the Ministry of Education to increase the coordination of WASH services, especially sanitation and water quality surveillance. The National Hygiene and Sanitation Task Force coordinates WASH efforts and has developed a national handwashing strategy with a campaign to target school children. They also have a plan to scale up household water treatment to ensure those most at risk of diarrhoeal disease have access to safe drinking-water. Over 35 000 health extension workers (HEWs) are involved in this effort, in addition to local leaders and communities. Zambia: The MoH oversees IMCI. Key messages governing community-based activities include disposal of faeces and handwashing. Source: Adapted from: Tearfund/PATH, 2012. Diarrhoea dialogues: from policies to progress. http://defeatdd.org/media/journalists/press-releases/ diarrhoea-dialogues#/media/journalists/press-releases/diarrhoea-dialogues 19 The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) Box 4. Western Kenya: Integrating household water treatment and handwashing education with maternal and child health This initiative aimed to integrate the distribution of incentive kits with maternal health services in order to increase attendance rates at ANC, improve rates of health facility deliveries, increase use of WaterGuard to treat water, and improve handwashing techniques. The intended beneficiaries were 2000 pregnant women residing in Nyanza Province. The integrated effort involved a number of national and international partners, including the Kenyan Ministry of Public Health, the United States Centers for Disease Control and WHO. The incentives provided included a hygiene kit (chlorine for water treatment and soap) which was given during ANC visits 1 and 3, a nutrition kit (fortified flour) given during ANC visits 2 and 3, and a delivery kit (bucket with lid and