based on the latest available data during the period 2005-2008. Data are insufﬁcient for Latin America & Caribbean and CEE/CIS. * Excludes China Trends in the percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving more to drink than usual during the illness, by region, 2000 and 2007 Source: UNICEF global diarrhoea databases, 2009. Trend analysis is based on data for a subset of developing countries with two or more comparable data points for around 2000 and 2007. Data are insufﬁcient for Latin America & Caribbean, CEE/CIS and Middle East & North Africa. * Excludes China Every region with data has seen declines in the share of children with diarrhoea who are drinking more ﬂuids Nearly one third of children with diarrhoea receive much less food than usual or none at all FIGURE 22 FIGURE 23 27 However, this is not always done and, in many countries, interviewers ask the generic question about the use of a government-recommended home ﬂuid, which then leaves respondents to deﬁne for themselves whether the ﬂuid was, in fact, a recommended one. This could lead to major data quality issues. Strengthened eﬀorts are now under way to customize these survey questions in the future. Increased ﬂuids When ORS and appropriate ﬂuids are not available, increasing the intake of almost any ﬂuids could also help to prevent dehydration caused by diarrhoea. Yet less than one quarter (22 per cent) of children with diarrhoea in developing countries drink more ﬂuids of any type during their illness (Figure 21). These low levels underscore the urgent need to educate caregivers regarding current treatment recommendations, including the need to provide increased amounts of ﬂuids to children with diarrhoea. Every region with data has seen slight declines since 2000 in the proportion of children who receive more to drink during episodes of diarrhoea (Figure 22). Again, lack of progress on an intervention that is readily available to all caregivers highlights the urgent need to expand education and behaviour change programmes to encourage appropriate home management of diarrhoea. Continued feeding Nearly one third of children with diarrhoea in developing countries receive either much less food or none at all during their illness – placing far too many children at risk of worsening nutritional status (Figure 23). Limited data are available to assess trends over time for continued feeding due to changes in survey questions around the year 2000 (see section entitled ‘Data used