2015, that proportion of children seeking care from healthcare provider for symptoms of pneumonia has increased globally, but the pace is slow as over the past 15 years the rate of care seeking increased by only 8 percentage points – from 55 per cent in 2000 to 63 per cent in 2015 (UNICEF, 2015). Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) 2013, reports low care seeking behavior for pneumonia and diarrhea. Among under-five year children suffering from pneumonia a high percentage of care seeking behavior was observed in Sindh or Gilgit Baltistan (81.6% and 81.5% respectively) whereas, in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa only 29.3% of children suffering from pneumonia sought care from a heath care provider (PDHS, 2013). On the other side, low care-seeking behavior had been observed for diarrhea. Disparities are observed between regions as 73% of under-five children in Sindh sought care from a healthcare provider whereas; trend was low in Baluchistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa as it was 43.4% and 23% respectively (PDHS, 2013). Qamar et al, (2016) in his study “Predictors of diarrheal mortality and patterns of caregiver health seeking behavior in Karachi, Pakistan”, to explore factors associated with diarrheal deaths, specifically care seeking behavior among caretakers of children living in periurban communities of Karachi. Results of study indicate that an appropriate care seeking behavior predicts survival in children with diarrhea in Pakistan. However, multiple factors such as social norms, culture, community dynamics, household economics, and health services related factors, individuals’ experiences with healthcare provider, contributes in low health seeking behavior among masses. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 23 Multiple indicators Cluster Survey of Sindh (2014), shows that, within districts of Sindh district Jamshoro, Sujawal and Jacobabad (84.3%, 82.9% and 80.1% respectively) show high care seeking for children from diarrhea whereas, it was least (44.7%) in district Ghotki. In case of Pneumonia, percentage of care seeking was highest in district Karachi East (96.9%) and was least in district Ghotki 53.1%. There was huge disparity in preference for care seeking from public and private healthcare facilities for both pneumonia and diarrhea patient load was observed on private healthcare providers in all districts. Care seeking behavior of children suffering from diarrhea was least in Muzaffargarh (49.1%) and highest in Lahore 86.7%. Moreover, private healthcare providers were preferred in all districts of Punjab. Child Survival and Health Grants Program (CSHGP) introduced an implementation framework for community case management to improve the community care-seeking