the opinion that allopathic treatment was adopted as the last resort while a few believed that there was sufficient awareness to consult a GP right away. Self-medication was also revealed as a popular mode of treatment. Spiritual healing was also mentioned by a few. Most popular way of treatment of Pneumonia was through antibiotics; most commonly stated were Augmentin, Ciprofloxacin, and Amoxicillin along with nebulizers. Almost all GPs believed that oxygen was important for the 50 treatment of Pneumonia. Majority of GPs found syrup to be more convenient for children, however a few also mentioned antibiotic injections. Most shared treatment for Diarrhea included Zinc syrup, ORS and antibiotics (Flagyl, Ciprofloxacin, Novidate). Intravenous infusions were also stated by a few GPs. 4.2.5.1 Treatment Practices of GPs Awareness, availability and affordability, were the three factors that were highlighted by GPs when they discussed usage of Zinc DTs and low osmolarity ORS. There were mixed responses about the awareness of Zinc DTs and low osmolarity ORS in treating Diarrhea. Some GPs were aware of these modes of treatment. This awareness was relatively lower in Punjab. Among GPs, who were aware of low osmolarity ORS, some considered it better than the regular one, while others considered the opposite. Generally, GPs were unsure about its availability in the market. Similarly, most GPs were unaware of Zinc dispersible tablets (DTs) and amongst the few who were aware, they were unsure of their availability in the market. A GP from Punjab revealed, “Yes, oral Zinc has very important role in treatment… I have never heard about Zinc DTs before.” Another GP from Punjab said, “..have heard of Zinc DTs. They are better than syrup because of their ready to use nature. But such Zinc DTs are not available in the market.” Among the GPs who were aware about Zinc DT, some were doubtful of its practicality. A GP from Sindh justified syrup’s preference in these words, “Dispersible tablets dissolve in water, because the water is contaminated so syrup is better than dispersible tablets.” A GP from Punjab supported Zinc syrup because, “Syrup has taste. Taste is main factor of acceptance or rejection of such medicine.” There were mixed responses of GPs as to whether the treatment of Diarrhea and Pneumonia was affordable in their catchment area or not. The GPs also had varying opinions about the approximate cost of Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment. A couple of GPs