innovations include alternative delivery strategies, such as Child Health Days, to reach a high proportion of the target group. Consumer research to improve packaging, marketing and product positioning will be essential for greater acceptance of ORS, soap and household water treatment. ■ Change behaviours through community involvement, education and health-promotion activities. 34 Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done Clear and targeted health promotion and behaviour change communication programmes must accompany the delivery of interventions to ensure that caregivers understand the simple actions they can take at home to prevent and manage diarrhoea. Engaging communities and caregivers early on – at the outset of programme planning – to strengthen their knowledge and practice of these essential measures is critical to their success and sustainability. ■ Make health systems work to control diarrhoea. National governments and their partners can transform general activities to strengthen health systems into speciﬁc agreements needed to reach every child with eﬀective measures to control diarrhoea. These include meeting the need for human resources, reducing staﬀ turnover, improving training programmes and seeking creative ways to motivate community health workers. ■ Monitor progress at all levels, and make the results count. As national programmes accelerate their diarrhoea control activities, it will become increasingly important for countries to collect, analyse and report quality data in a timely manner to monitor programmes and increase accountability and performance. ■ Make the prevention and treatment of diarrhoea everybody’s business. – Families and communities can ensure that breastfeeding, handwashing, sanitation and the treatment of household water receive the priority they deserve. They must also be supported in working with government to access safe water supplies and to operate and maintain water supply systems once they are built. Everyone from adolescents and schoolteachers to religious leaders and local business people can get involved. – The public sector can advance comprehensive prevention and treatment programmes at both the national and local levels, not only through the ministry of health but also through agencies involved in education, commerce, water and sanitation, nutrition, women’s aﬀairs and urban and rural development. – The private sector can promote innovation in the supply and delivery of key interventions, in partnership with public institutions. – Government leaders can expand public awareness of the problem and its solutions, thereby increasing demand for services to reduce deaths from diarrhoea. – Global partnerships and networks can forge new links across