conducted by a research team of two from Contech’s head office. Interviews of personnel involved in the treatment and management of diarrhea and pneumonia were conducted by the field teams who were provided prior training. Male regional supervisors observed the interviewers to ensure that the interviews were conducted properly, asking questions appropriately accompanied by taking notes. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 44 Informed consents were obtained before the beginning of each session. All transcripts (in local language) and audio recordings for the study were submitted to Contech’s operations office in Lahore. They were then reviewed and translated into English language. After transcription, a team of experts transferred the transcripts into an analytical matrix formed in Microsoft Excel. This process was completed by 15th October 2017. Content Analysis Upon completion of data collection, the entire data set was transcribed and compiled. This included the audio recordings which were translated in English along with the field data generated from interviews and discussions which were not audio recorded. These findings were then analysed in the context of study objectives as stipulated in the research proposal. A comprehensive coding framework was developed and after coding, the narrative was sorted into the pre-identified themes. Data was read over and over again, making comparisons and connections until no further codes could be developed and the data was found to be saturated. Coding was guided by grounded theory and done using a complex, bottom-up, inductive approach to find patterns emerging across the data set. Coding was followed by thematic analysis, categorizing and classifying of overarching themes from the emergent data. Content analysis facilitated in identifying gaps for improving the management of diarrhea and pneumonia and for making the requisite policy changes from the developed themes and categories. This provided foundation for Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 45 theory of change and also facilitated in conceptualizing a prospective for accountability framework. Quality Assurance Quality assurance was maintained at all stages of the research, right from the inception of the research to the submission of the report. Conscious effort was made to ensure that the quality of data is not compromised at any stage of the research process. While the research was being designed, consultations were constantly held with all stakeholders in order to meet their needs and to refine scope of the research. There was continuous liaison with UNICEF team to ensure requirements were matched. Prior to the