prescribing behaviour of the healthcare providers in the private sector Our findings have pointed out to us the key stakeholders that will play a crucial role for our desired impact. Following is a brief description of the stakeholders when seen especially in the context of acceleration of the availability of the commodities. The stakeholders can be categorized according to the sector and the level within the health system. Once the stakeholders have been identified it is critically important that the relative relationship of these stakeholders is analysed keeping in view the outcomes required from these relationships. The relative patterns of these relationships are discussed in detail in the accountability section. 103 Table 12: Stakeholders Sector Micro Level Micro Level Micro Level Public/ Government MNHSRC, DRAP, Provincial Health Department, Vertical programs District Health Officer, District Coordinator of Vertical Programs Medical officers, Health facility In-charges, Community Health Workers Patients Private FPAP, PPA, Pharmaceutical manufacturers Regional Management of Pharmaceutical manufacturers, Private practitioners, Representatives of the Pharmaceutical manufacturers, Community Development Partners WHO, UNICEF (Federal Level) WHO, UNICEF (Provincial and District Level) Summary of Theory of Change and Accountability Framework Pathway of Change and Strategic Areas • Policy Change • Updated Clinical Management Practices • Local manufacturing of the proposed commodities • Strengthened Logistics and Procurement System • Budgeting for the Updated Commodities Policy Change • Policy makers and decision makers are made aware of the global recommendations and they are committed to bring the necessary changes. • Child Survival Groups are committed, capable and empowered and for the required changes. • National Vision and Provincial Strategies emphasize the importance of Child Survival. • Essential Medicine Lists and Procurement Lists contain the required commodities. • DHIS and MIS of the LHW program reflect the new commodities • IMNCI guidelines are updated according to the global recommendations. • A strong monitoring mechanism for the Pneumonia and Diarrhea Indicators is in place. Local Manufacturing • Establish and operate the production promotion working group (MNHSR&C, DRAP, Pharmaceuticals, PPA, UNICEF) Updated Clinical Management • Training programs are in place for the health care providers • Prescribing behaviour of the health care providers in the private sector is according to the global recommendations 105 POLICY ANALYSIS 106 The goal of the project is to ensure that the relevant national policies are in place, understood and adhered to in order to ensure availability of the essential commodities for improving management of