reduce funding for provincial vertical health programmes – this raises a challenge for provinces. ▪ Delayed releases of funds by the Finance Departments to DDOs – result in delayed procurements – in some cases manufacturers refused to supply due to delayed work orders – resulting in budget lapse. ▪ Finalisation of Central Rate Contracts took place in quarter 2 of 2016. ▪ In Balochistan, FD prepares budget on behalf of Health DDOs. 23 4. Recommendations and Action Plan Recommendations Based on the study finding, the following key recommendations are made: 4.1.1. Improvement in forecasting mechanism At present, the forecasting of medicines procurement is based on method of consumption. This means that a certain percentage is added to prior year’s amounts consumed. The government should build its capacity to gradually move towards WHO recommended forecasting methods. Three methods can be considered by the government: ▪ Stock adjustment method in this method future procurement take into account the situation of functional stock-outs, ▪ Morbidity based forecast this method uses data from surveys to calculate morbid population, percentage of population using health facilities, and forecast quantities required, and ▪ Patient load analysis based on DHIS data, the forecasts of quantities required are undertaken for public health facilities. However, implementation of the above methods will require capacity enhancement of procurement entities, the departments of health, and departments of finance. In addition, the government should consider formalising the process of development of ‘district action plans’ as basis of budget allocation. Under this method, each year, the district officials take stock of the following: • Status of health facilities, • Current level of stocks of drugs and medicines, • Disease burden based on a representative sample survey, • Understanding of out of pocket expenditure, • Storage capacities, • Understanding of health service providers public and private, and • Budgets made available by the government. 4.1.2. Improving efficiency in the use of government budgets The gap for treatment between what is currently available and what is required is around 3 times. This means that the government will have to spend 3 times more budget than it is spending currently in order to treat all morbid population under the age of 5. However, the government can reduce this ratio through a number of mechanisms: • Increasing efficiency in public health expenditure more specifically, the government can increase efficiency in expenditure if: ▪ The use of co-packing of ORS