in low-income settings, many of which have by far the highest incidence. At the relatively high initial cost, the technology has been slow to be adopted by poorer communities where the technology is sold for even higher prices to balance the low demand and difficulty of market creation. The fact that hospitals also have to compete for funds with other departments also proves to be a significant barrier and the often-low capital investment limits accessibility. The fragility and replacement of the probe is another determining factor. The delicate probes need to be replaced every year and sometimes, even before due to their easily damageable nature (Stop Pneumonia, 2016). 2.8 ARI TIMERS Childhood Pneumonia is very difficult to diagnose. Apart from symptoms like high fever and chronic cough, WHO recommended another diagnostic sign which is rapid respiratory rate which can be calculated using an Acute 20 Respiratory Infection (ARI) Timer. Prompt care seeking and early, accurate diagnosis is pivotal in preventing the untimely death of children from Pneumonia. Supporting health workers in determining how long they need to count a child’s breaths, UNICEF and WHO developed ARI Timer in 1990s. In last five years nearly half a million timers have been supplied by WHO and UNICEF in over 70 countries (UNICEF, 2017). 2.9 OXYGEN THERAPY Oxygen supplementation is one of the oldest ways of providing assistance in treating Pneumonia in patients who cannot breathe adequately on their own. It should be started as early as the first appearance of cyanosis of the finger nails. (Guedel 1925). Hypoxemia (insufficient oxygen in the blood) is the major fatal complication of Pneumonia, increasing the risk for death many times. It is estimated that at least 13.3% of children with Pneumonia have hypoxemia, corresponding to 1.86 million cases of hypoxemic Pneumonia each year (WHO 2016). The frequency of hypoxemia is about 5 and 8 times higher in children with ARI in emergency departments and in patient wards, respectively, than in cases cared for in out-patient clinics (Lozano 2001). It is also associated with a twoto five-fold increase in the risk of death from Pneumonia (Duke, Mgone, Frank 2001). It is therefore important that hypoxemia is detected early and accurately and oxygen administration initiated immediately to those needing it. Although hypoxemia is defined by varying thresholds of oxygen saturation depending on altitude current general guidelines suggest oxygen administration to a child with a measured oxygen saturation