for optimal drug information center [hafeez and mirza 1999]. The reporting mechanism of Adverse Drug Reactions (ADR) is considerably week. There are many parameters due to which the reporting of the ARD is not sufficient to support promote the drug information. Even in some studies it has been observed that the medical professionals are not well aware of the term or if aware were not know the process of reporting the ADR. A cross sectional study conducted to identify the influences of the availability of essential medicines for the community management childhood illness in Central Ugrnada has mentioned that the uninterrupted supply of medicines to treat children <5 years with pneumonia, diarrhea and malaria depends on the timely submission of the reports showing the utilization of medicines for the purpose of the replenishment. Innovative ways of monitoring of the stock levels may improve the monitoring and availability of medicines which is an important factor for the community health workers to manage the pneumonia and diarrhea. [13] In achieving the Millennium Development Goals of UN lack of educated staff is one of the major barriers. The lack of pharmacist is one of the reason to achieve the goals of medicines supply chain management. MSC not under the supervision of pharmacist or even the person having required pharmacy knowledge has caused hurdles in operations of smooth supply chain management of medicines. The training of health personal on essential medicines supply chain management should be done to improve the availability of medicines. [14] Maintaining of adequate supply of essential medicines at the health facility level is the backbone of the success of management of any particular disease. Maintaining the stock level in the health facility is a challenging task. An innovative idea to monitor the stock and timely and effectively reporting system contributes a lot to support the disease management. A pilot project for the improvement of the essential medicines supplies for the malaria has introduces the mobile text reporting system, named “SMS for life” has worked well to improve the availability of medicines for malaria in health facility. The study reports that good visibility of the stock level’s reports submitted timely has the major factor to reduce the stock-out conditions in the health facility [15] Health system delivery systems like, Philippines, constantly challenged by the disasters and emergencies where existing laws, national policies and regulations covers critical aspects of medicines management including