procurement lists and Minimum Service Delivery Packages (MSDPs) are all contributing substantially in achieving the goal of healthy children and their survival in Pakistan. UNICEF’s approach to promote and advocate for use of DTs in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea are eventually expected to facilitate decline in childhood morbidity and mortality in Pakistan. The evaluation results recommend that in order to maximise this positive impact of DTs in better P&D management, UNICEF should take up two-pronged approach involving concurrent advocacy eﬀorts to mitigate inherent barriers in local production and public procurement, and engagement of private providers through professional associations for change in prescribing behaviors. Accelerating Policy Change, Translation and Implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Commodities in Pakistan 2 D T D T D T UNICEF through support of BMGF introduced use of Dispersible Tablets at primary healthcare facilities in selected districts of Sindh and Punjab due to their: accuracy of dosage easy administration convenience in logistics cost eﬀectiveness Healthcare providers perceived that accuracy of dosage of medicines for treating Pneumonia and Diarrhea is a challenge Pakistan is 3rd in the list of countries with the highest number of Pneumonia and Diarrhea child deaths in the world In less than two years of introduction, nearly 50% of healthcare providers have started prescribing DTs in intervention districts UNICEF Pakistan (2019). Retrieved on August 15, 2019, from https://www.unicef.org/pakistan/health UNICEF. (n.d). Dispersible tablets. Retrieved on August 21, 2019 from https://www.UNICEF.org/supply/ﬁles/Dispersible_Tablets.pdf OUTCOME Based on the situation analysis and learning from best practices, UNICEF provided technical support to federal and provincial governments to procure and distribute DTs to ensure availability at primary level healthcare facilities and community level in target districts of Punjab and Sindh. Provincial manager informed, “Amoxicillin DT and Zinc DT have been made part of the Essential Medicine List.” Amoxicillin & Zinc DT are now part and parcel of Minimum Service Delivery Package (MSDP) for the healthcare facilities in Punjab. Analysis revealed that UNICEF procured and supplied approximately 169,744 Amoxicillin DTs and Co-packaged Zinc DTs at ~2,458 primary healthcare facilities in Sindh and ~ 450 health facilities in Punjab. At community level, Zinc DTs were made available to LHWs in both Punjab and Sindh. Through the eﬀorts of this project, Government has included Amoxicillin DTs and Zinc DTs for P&D in the procurement lists of healthcare facilities, ensuring the sustainability of these drugs at the healthcare facilities beyond the life of the project.The