during the report-writing phase. 3.6 Data Management 3.6.1 Data Handling and Record Keeping In order to ensure the quality of data, field manager reviewed/checked tools for completeness and logical errors. Technical team reviewed collected data to assure quality standards. All completed tools were kept confidential after entry, analysis, and report writing. It was ensured that only authorized personnel have access to the filled tools. Electronic soft data was stored in a database while reports are entered whereas entered data was kept in folders and backup for safety purposes. Data gathered through KIIs and FGDs was recorded and transcribed. After collection of field data each completed tool was reviewed before submission. Routine data transfer was done on a Periodic basis to the Team Leader by field team. To minimize human error, double data entry was done whereas transcription carried out carefully considering all field notes to ensure the proper flow and recording of valuable information. Physical validation of a sample of data was conducted during routine monitoring visits. Once data was collected, cleaned and secured, it was transcribed for analysis. Field teams transcribed data of KIIs and FGDs. To ensure secure and efficient data management during the fieldwork and data collection phase, following procedures was adopted: • Data capture – FGDs and IDIs were recorded and transcripts were prepared; collection of survey data, semi-structured interviews were supervised by District Supervisors who were responsible for checking each completed questionnaire before submission to the Contech’s Provincial/Regional Coordinator. • Routine data transfer – Weekly reporting was done by Provincial/Regional Coordinator • To minimize human error – Data entry was done after forms were checked by both District Supervisor and Provincial/Regional Coordinator. Desk editing team was placed at Head Office who edited the data of any errors. • Data verification – Physical validation of data sample was conducted during routine monitoring visits and ensured that collected data was gender disaggregated. 3.6.2 Data Analysis Qualitative analysis was characterized by reducing the overwhelming amount of data by identifying the content of more or less encompassing data segments. This analysis was conducted manually, exploring the complex phenomena hidden in data to manage, extract, compare, explore, and reassemble meaningful pieces from large amounts of data in creative, flexible, yet systematic ways. A "code" as abbreviation or name was attached to each segment. These codes were used as representatives of data segments or "units of meaning" in the data. A