a critical role in overall health and development of infants and young children, but among children of under developed and developing countries, its deficiencies are wide spread. During Diarrheal episodes zinc further depletes therefore, replacing this important micronutrient is essential for child recovery. WHO and UNICEF recommend a daily dosage of 20 mg of zinc supplements for 10 days for children suffering with Diarrhea and 10 mg for infants under six months (Bhutta et al, 2000). Similarly, WHO recommends a 250 mg amoxicillin DT, to be taken twice daily for 3-5 days for treating Pneumonia. Due to better results, UNICEF has been promoting DTs as they are more efficient than syrups. There are various characteristics of a dispersible tablet and suspension/syrup, which make them different in their usability. Their preparation, plasma concentration, dosage, palatability, packaging, storage, handling, logistics, cost etc. vary to a great degree. Suspension/ syrup is prepared in the ratio 20 mg/5 ml with prescribed amount of water to be placed in the suspension bottle, whereas dispersible tablet is to be dispersed in a small amount (5 to 10ml) of liquid; clean water or breast milk. Preparation of both commodities is also different as less water is required for DTs compared to suspension, since it is prepared per dose. Nonetheless, uniformity of content is not guaranteed in both forms. Use of clean and appropriate container to disperse the tablet is required. The liquid can be softly stirred to aid dispersion before swallowing. Dispersible tablets are easy to dispense, require minimal manipulation prior to use, which minimizes the risk of errors. Accuracy of dosage varies with Suspension/ Syrup. Dosing of liquids can be uncertain due to inaccuracy of spoon measurement/size. On the contrary dispersible tablet’s dosage is more accurate as each dose requires the complete intake of one or half tablet. Therefore, dosing errors can be better avoided with dispersible tablets. Palatability of both commodities depended upon the formulation. Formulations can be composed according to the taste requirements. Taste masking has recently been adopted for dispersible tablets. Mostly suspension is packaged in 30 or 60 ml glass/ceramic bottle. On the other hand, dispersible tablets are usually packed in blisters (aluminium /PVC) or strips (aluminium), which are lighter in weight and packing is prone to breakage unlike suspension bottles. Manufacturer guarantees the stability of the dispersible tablet in this primary packaging, as they are less physical resistance than regular tablets,