facility in-charge from Sindh had a different perspective on self-treatment and assumed it could lead to adverse health effects, further aggravating the condition of the patients. According to him, “Severe Diarrhea and Pneumonia is caused by the self-medication. About 30% people took tablets from market and assumed them to be appropriate for cure.” Quack Doctors – Quack doctors also seemed to be largely preferred by the communities. A facility in-charge from Punjab specified that “People first consult quacks for such purposes and if there is no relief then only they visit RHCs.” Allopathic Treatment – There were also some respondents who deemed allopathic treatment as the most preferred form of treatment in their area. Facility in-charge from both Punjab and Sindh did agree allopathic treatment as preferred treatment of such diseases. 44 4.2.2 Trainings Almost all factors related to trainings were affected by lack of funding. This section outlines the themes that emerged regarding the training of facility in-charges: 4.2.2.1 Lack of Funding General resentment prevailed regarding the amount of funds allocated for conducting trainings. Lack of trainings was associated with shortage of funds. A facility in-charge from Sindh expressed his frustration, “My staff and I have not received any call for any training in the last two years…” 4.2.2.2 Training Needs All facility in-charges unanimously agreed that there is a substantial need for trainings and they would definitely benefit the facility and its workers, which would in turn prove beneficial for entire community. Facility in-charges believed that there was not only a need for training staff in treating these diseases but also for inventory management including forecasting and quantification of medicines. A facility in-charge expressed that, “It is unfortunate that the health facility staff, especially the paramedics, did not receive any training for treating Diarrhea and Pneumonia in the last many years.” At the same time, most facility in-charges claimed their health facilities were fully equipped to deal with all childhood diseases, reporting competent and skilled staff. An in-charge of a facility in Sindh reflected, “This health facility is well known & upgraded as RHC. The staff, especially the paramedics is competent in their work. Their skills to manage the childhood diseases are up to mark. Such in-service trainings can enhance the competence level in terms of diagnosis of diseases, its categorization and treatment.” Nonetheless, a few reported that such trainings did take place. A facility in-charge from Punjab