with the monitoring and evaluation teams. The micro-plan entailed day-to-day data collection activities of each field team, ensuring that the provided trainings were put to practical use and that the data collection was being carried out in the required manner. Micro-plans facilitated the monitoring of data collection activities in the field and addressed any issues that arose during the process. The training agenda and field micro-plan were shared with UNICEF for the comments and feedback before finalization. 3.5.10 Monitoring of Field Data Collection A thorough monitoring mechanism at both macro and micro levels was employed for assuring quality and gender disaggregation of collected data, by developing monitoring tools, their field-testing and modification. A monitoring and evaluation plan of the field activities were developed along with detail procedures and protocols that were shared with UNICEF. A participatory monitoring and evaluation approach was adopted, involving stakeholders and beneficiaries in the process of data collection. Specific measures were established to ensure proper accountability and transparency throughout the evaluation, specifically during the data collection phase. Senior Technical team was assigned task of assuring data quality and was responsible for: • Accompanying Calls: observing some of the interviews to ensure that the interviewers were conducting the interview well, asking the questions in the right manner and interpreting the answers correctly. • Conducting Spot Checks: to ensure that the questions were asked properly and recorded appropriately and that respondents are being identified correctly. UNICEF Evaluation and Research Unit also conducted the spot checks of the teams during the interviews and FGDs. • Questionnaire Completion Reviews: reviewing a proportion of questionnaires to ensure that they were complete and internally consistent. Midterm Evaluation Report 35 • Micro-plan based data collection: A day-wise field micro plan was prepared and shared with the UNICEF and the relevant stakeholders at Ministry and provincial departments for joint supervision. 3.5.11 Fieldwork and Data Collection The course of data collection took place as per the detailed micro-plan. The entire evaluation fieldwork was completed within a span of 6 weeks. However, the technical team reconnected with certain key informants to elaborate further on their discussion during the report-writing phase. 3.6 Data Management 3.6.1 Data Handling and Record Keeping In order to ensure the quality of data, field manager reviewed/checked tools for completeness and logical errors. Technical team reviewed collected data to assure quality standards. All completed tools were kept confidential after entry, analysis, and report