situations and enmity between various groups, others reported safety concerns while walking through the streets alone. They added that they always tried to take along a female companion. However, overall most communities were described as cooperative and well informed about LHW services. 4.2.7.8 Community Awareness and Acceptability LHWs reported that although cultural restrictions and taboos still came into play, society was generally seeing a shift towards modern methods of treatment. Many people, though still somewhat reliant on home remedies like rice-water and honey, actively sought out medical aid and advice from the LHWs. The community of Pakpattan especially, had shown a considerable improvement after an effective awareness campaign launched by the LHWs. 58 Summary of Perspective of LHWs • Claimed to be ill-equipped with medical supplies, tools and guidelines • Expressed a need for continuous training sessions • Communicated that a certain sense of insecurity/ lack of safety prevailed while going out in the field • Wanted record maintenance of cases to be computerized Nonetheless, this was not the case in all districts; the level of community awareness seemed to be mostly unsettling in the district of Tando Mohammad Khan, where the community faced a lot of problems due to lack of clean drinking water and proper sewage system. Participants reported that people seemed to largely lack awareness, when it came to maintaining cleanliness: not washing their hands after using the toilets and failing to cover food items. 4.2.8 Perceptions of Parents/Caretakers Most parents complained that their child was suffering from abdominal pain, fever, vomiting, dehydration, loose motions, breathing problems, allergies, throat infection and flu. Malaria, Pneumonia and Diarrhea were the most common diseases mentioned by parents affecting children and were used repeatedly and interchangeably in parents’ responses. Diarrhea, specifically, seemed to be relatively more widespread, while Pneumonia cases increased during the winter season. A parent from Sindh explained, “We have Diarrhea, Pneumonia and malaria due to mosquito bites, hot weather and unclean water.” Another parent from Sindh reiterated this view, “We have a lot of patients of Diarrhea, fever and abdominal pain in our village. Diarrhea mostly occurs in children due to lack of clean drinking water and lack of cleanliness.” Apart from the above-mentioned diseases, many parents stated that skin allergies and other seasonal infections caused severe health hazards. A parent from Punjab expressed that “The diseases which normally affects patients here are viral infections and skin allergies.”