(now called Nutrition International) were considered as strengths of department of health. The district of Punjab in which Nutrition International was working was not included in the study. Their financial contributions were described in budgetary gap analysis study. SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 27 3.6 Ethical Standards The study will follow strict ethical guidelines associated with undertaking quantitative and qualitative research. The consent has been taken from key informants before starting the interview. During the interview socio-culture context were kept in view. No interviews were planned or conducted from children. The study has ensured that the research should not in any way harm the respondent. The report has not included any direct or indirect identification information of research participants. All ethical standards of UNICEF were followed. 04 RESULTS & ANALYSIS SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 30 RESULTS & ANALYSIS 04 The main focus of the assessment findings were Policy, legislation and regulation, Product selection, Organization and Staffing, Logistics management information System, Forecasting, Procurement, Inventory management, Warehousing. Moreover, the assessment of storage, Transportation & Distribution, Organizational support for logistics and Rational utilization of medicines, registration of new formulations of amoxicillin dispersible tablet with Drug Regulator Authority of Pakistan. The major findings of the assessment were as follows. 1) National Essential Medicines List: Pakistan has National Essential list based on which provincial EML were prepared. Provinces have procurement rules of medicines which restrict the DoH to procure the medicines only from the Provincial Essential Medicines List, or, if required, from NEML. The strict rules for medicines selection from NEML, have strengthened the product selection of SCMS. 2) Logistic Management Information System: The status of LMIS was more or less similar in Sindh and Punjab. The situation of vertical program was also same in both provinces. 3) Forecasting: The quality of forecasting is based on the availability of data. The impact of LMIS on forecasting gave the same results. 4) Procurement: At the districts of Sindh and Punjab, procurement process was similar LSAT scoring that is 53%. While the score of Specialized healthcare and medical education (SH&ME), was 70%, which was the highest percentage in the public sector. 5) Inventory control: The inventory control procedures of SH&ME hospitals i.e. DHQs of Punjab has shown better results of assessment that is 92%. It was mainly due to the development and implementation of medicines Inventory management software. The situation of the districts in