or not.” New forms of medication – Low osmolarity ORS, was available in most of the health facilities (80 percent) in implementing districts of Sindh and Punjab, with the in-charges being well aware of its benefits in comparison to the regular. Facilities In-charges in most instances had sound knowledge on how to administer L-ORS along with the added benefits of decrease in Diarrheal episodes. However, shortages of L-ORS at selected facilities in Muzaffargarh, Thatta and Karachi West were reported at the time of evaluation. The facility in-charges in both Punjab and Sindh discussed DTs, in terms of their availability, acceptability and practicality as a medicine in reference to syrup. Dispersible Tablets have gained popularity in target districts especially in Sindh. Zinc Dispersible Tablets were present in majority of the facilities in Sindh and Punjab, and facility in-charges were aware of their benefits especially in terms of cost effectiveness and easy administration when compared to syrups. Facility in-charge from Sindh claimed about the benefits of DTs as compared to syrup, “DTs are more effective than syrup, exact dosage is administered through them which is essential for recovery.” Midterm Evaluation Report 45 Despite their benefits, majority of facility in-charges assumed that DTs were not available outside of public health sector facilities. Dispersible Tablets gathered varying views from the facility in-charges on its acceptability in the communities. Facility in-charges in both Sindh and Punjab stated that with proper counselling, a large number of caregivers have started using DTs, especially Zinc DT. Facility in-charges also assumed that DTs, specifically Amoxicillin DT has yet to win over complete community support over syrups. Without involving the Lady Health Workers and private health care providers its acceptance in communities is difficult. A facility in-charge from Sindh shared, “Community’s perception about DTs can be improved by counselling. Lady Health Workers can play a critical role…” Perceptions of Lady Health Workers on updated commodities – Lady Health Workers in the target districts of Sindh and Punjab had a certain level of awareness about the benefits of updated commodities especially of LoORS and ARI Timers but there wasn’t much awareness and acceptability about the benefits of DTs especially Amoxicillin. These LHWs seemed to have some shortage of supplies especially regarding DTs, however majority were being provided with LoORS and Zinc syrups. LHWs were aware of the benefits of ARI Timers in Acute Respiratory Tract Infections and have been provided with