of Amoxicillin DT in Pakistan with a production capacity of 1.4 million tablets per day. Considering prevalence of ARI and availability of substitutes and other competing factors, it is presumed that ZAFA alone can meet the requirement of Amoxicillin DT in just 53 work days if manufacture in full capacity. • Based on assumption that 23 percent under five children (7,072,644) suffer from diarrhea each year in Pakistan, it is estimated that 100 million dosages of zinc sulphate are required for 14 days treatment of under-five diarrhea patients. Two companies (ZAFA and FEROZSONS), geographically located in Northern and Southern regions of the country, can jointly meet this requirement in 36 days. • Approximately 42.4 million sachets of 20.5 g/l or 21.2 Million sachets of 10.2 g/l of low osmolarity ORS will be needed to meet the requirement according to the burden of disease. Two companies, ATCO and FEROZSONS, having production capacity to manufacture 120,000 sachets per day, can meet this requirement in less than 27 weeks. • To fulfil the need of diarrhea commodities at a tertiary care facility, there may be something to learn from a unique supply model practiced at The Children Hospital and The Institute of Child health Lahore. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 161 Theory of Change & Accountability Framework Pathway of Change and Strategic Areas The goal of the project is to ensure that the relevant national policies are in place, understood and adhered to in order to ensure availability of the essential commodities for improving management of childhood diarrhea and pneumonia and increasing child survival by the end of 2019. Our findings have helped us to map out a pathway for the change required to make sure that the children suffering from pneumonia and diarrhea are being treated according to the updated global recommendations. Our analysis has identified the following key strategic areas and outcomes that are needed to actualize the dream. These areas cover the overall aspects of policy change, translation and implementation. The pathway is shown for all the five key strategic areas, which are required for the change to happen. The scope of this analysis encompasses the first three strategic areas of policy change, clinical management of pneumonia and diarrhea and the local manufacturing of the proposed commodities. The outcome pathways for these strategic areas have been mapped based on the extensive insights from the analysis of our findings for this