National health plan or strategy and budget Comprehensive multi-year plan (cMYP) for immunization National IMCI and/or child health/survival strategic plan National nutrition/IYCF policy/strategy National PMTCT strategic plan MDG /Countdown Reports WHO/UNICEF JMP report on access to water and sanitation National WASH strategies (water quality, sanitation, etc.) Poverty reduction strategic plans Strategies and policies for emergencies and outbreaks including risk assessments 4. Review epidemiology and burden of disease figures Review morbidity and mortality status, focusing on trends, updates of new data, factors/strategies that explain the current situation, risks/challenges, new developments, etc. Review morbidity and mortality data from previous outbreaks such as cholera as well as information from the disease early warning and surveillance systems Disaggregate data by geography, socioeconomic status, gender and/or other relevant factors 5. Review the progress the country is making towards implementing the key interventions for maternal, neonatal and child survival as per the most recent data available (e.g. DHS). Review intervention coverage by: interventions to protect, interventions to prevent and interventions to treat Is progress good for some interventions? Note key reasons why good progress is being made Is progress poor for some interventions? What are the key bottlenecks/barriers? Begin to identify key actions to improve the situation 6. Review national strategies in place to support implementation of diarrhoea and pneumonia interventions, including in high-risk/fragile contexts and emergencies National strategy for IMCI /control of diarrhea and pneumonia, water, sanitation and hygiene in place? National standards and norms for diarrhoea and pneumonia management available? When was the last update made on national norms and standards? Does the management of diarrhoea include use of lowosmolarity ORS and zinc? Are zinc and household water treatment products included in the national essential medicines list? Are national guidelines for the management of pneumonia and diarrhoea in the community available? Are community health workers trained in iCCM and key WASH messages? Are there national guidelines for management of severe malnutrition in the community? 54 7. Review the enabling policy environment Is there a policy on community case management for: pneumonia, diarrhoea, malaria, malnutrition, neonatal conditions? Is there a national strategic plan for: child survival or health, IMCI, nutrition/IYCF, EPI, safe drinking-water, sanitation, hygiene and clean air? Are national standards in place for drinking-water and sanitation facilities in health facilities and in homes? Is there a budget line for drinking-water? Sanitation? Hygiene? Is spending on water and sanitation reaching levels committed at international forums