gap in translation of policies to ensure commodity access related to diarrhea and pneumonia in the public and private sectors at federal and provincial level (Punjab and Sindh provinces)? Key Question Barriers and facilitators Political economy dimensions Escape hatches Policy and institutional level factors Theories of Change a) b) c) d) e) Identification of Governmental departments Donors and development partners Gps network and related Clinical & Pharmacist Associations Child Survival Groups Intelligentsia and Academic Bodies Child Survival Strategies and Policies Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 7 mainly be the government, academia, UN agencies and pharmaceutical companies. It is envisaged that this landscape analysis would not only benefit in evidence based policy making but would contribute in policy translation at the highest level. This study report is in overall compliance with the TORs (see Annex 1) and its specific objectives which were to: • Review and provide insight on barriers and facilitators to policy translation and commodity access in public and private sector; • Identification of gaps in existing policies relevant Child Survival strategies with their relevance to GAPPD; • Assess the prescribing behavior’s and treatment approaches among public and private sector service providers and vertical programs LHW program; • Recommend the steps for inclusion of pneumonia and diarrhea commodities into essential medicine lists, procurement lists based on evidence-based briefing papers and policy notes including GAPPD on the benefits of Amoxicillin-DT, Zinc-DT, co-packaged ORS and Zinc, Pulse Oximeters, and Oxygen; • Mapping in details of key stakeholders and activist at all levels; • Draft a framework to define the roles and responsibilities of key implementing stakeholders to utilize further for child survival working groups. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 8 Literature Review This chapter synthesizes literature reviewed for conducting the landscape analysis and subsequently developing the accountability framework and feasibility analysis. In the first section, description of global scenario along with federal and provincial level policies and strategies are reviewed. This section further captures the existing management practices for pneumonia and diarrhea – including the shift from tablets/syrups to dispersible tablets; use of Low Osmolarity ORS, Oxygen, ARI timers, Pulse Oximeters. It concludes with a brief description of global context and best practices across the developing world. Global Scenario Since 1990 a remarkable decline in child mortality has been observed. Children under five years of age who died in year 1990 to 2015 have dropped significantly, i.e. from 12.7 million to