related to diarrhoea and pneumonia, and then to implement a new integrated package of services within communities. The integrated approach resulted in coordinated policies, improved access to care at the community level, and the implementation of integrated training for Village Health Volunteers (VHV). PATH, alongside key partners, successfully advocated for ORS and zinc to be deregulated and made available at the community level. To improve communitylevel service delivery, PATH also brought the MoH and partners together to update health worker training. A number of key lessons have been learned from the introduction and initiation of the programme: • National policy must be translated into action at the community level to be effective. • Coordinated and strategic working relationships between ministries, technical agencies, NGOs, and local organizations ensure support at all levels. • Comprehensive integration improves programming effectiveness and broadens the scope of reach. • Capacity building is an ongoing process; trained VHVs need monitoring, supervision, and opportunities for continued learning. • Health systems strengthening must be holistic, working to overcome financial, governmental, operational and capacity constraints. • Changing provider behaviour at all levels is integral to improving access to ORS and zinc. Source: Adapted from http://www.path.org/publications/files/ER_app_edd_ cambodia_cs.pdf. 22 Coordinate planning and implementation of interventions • Designate a national working group or review membership of an appropriate existing group for pneumonia and diarrhoea control A national-level coordinating body is needed to take responsibility for formulating and coordinating the implementation of an action plan. In countries with high pneumonia and diarrhoea mortality, it may be necessary to form a new group. In other countries, such a group will be part of an existing national task force or committee related to child survival, including IMCI, immunization, nutrition, health systems, essential drugs, HIV, water, sanitation and hygiene, air quality and other relevant programmes such as those addressing emergencies or outbreaks. Whatever the situation, there should be a body with clear responsibility for controlling pneumonia and diarrhoea. This group should include the relevant managers from various ministries (e.g. ministries of health, water, environment, energy and/or education), as well as appropriate representatives from WHO, UNICEF, other relevant United Nations agencies, NGOs, professional bodies, the private sector and academia. Terms of reference for the group should indicate the membership, tasks, expected outputs and the frequency of meetings (see example in Annex 4). • Develop a resource mobilization plan and mobilize resources Mobilizing resources is an important role