osmolarity ORS. It is found that this product is more efficacious and 17% cheaper because it requires less salt and glucose and therefore less packaging. Dispersible tablet (DT) is now a preferred formulation for Zinc and Amoxicillin than suspension, for having more rapid and high absorption from pregastric parts of GIT enhancing bioavailability and efficacy, ease of preparation, reliability of dosing, not needing refrigeration and relatively longer shelf life. 5.2 PHARMACEUTICAL MARKET AND REGULATION Pakistan has a very vibrant and progressive pharma industry, comprising of about 660 local pharmaceutical manufacturing units, meeting international cGMP standards and registered with Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP). It also includes 25 multinational pharmaceutical companies. The total size of pharma industry may be around 800 if those in the process of being registered and passing through the scrutiny processes of Quality Control Section of DRAP are also included. Pakistan pharmaceutical Industry meets around 70 percent of country’s demand of finished medicines. In terms of share market, the domestic pharma market is almost equally divided between the nationals and the multinational companies. During the past decade, national pharmaceutical industry has shown a progressive growth and has invested substantially in upgrading itself. Currently the industry has the capacity to manufacture a variety of product ranging from simple pills to sophisticated biotech, oncology and value-added Generic compounds. 67 Pakistan, having population of over 200 million, is a developing pharmaceutical market. It’s pharmaceutical spending accounts for less than 1 percent of the country’s GDP; a bit higher than average when compared with regional countries in the South East Asia. With strengthening of the generics sector, the share of generics is expected to increase further due to weaning of major patent drugs. The Pakistan pharmaceutical industry had an export turnover of over $212 million from 2014 to 2015. Many units of Pakistan pharmaceutical industry are approved by regulatory authorities all over the world. The sales in international market have gone almost double during last five years and are likely to increase further with new regional and global opportunities. The Pakistan pharmaceutical industry provides high-quality essential drugs at affordable prices to millions. It is not only growing into technologically strong and self-reliant national pharmaceutical industry but also capturing more and more international markets. The Pakistan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association had adopted “Vision 2025” for the national pharmaceutical industry, under which it is envisioned to increase the exports of medicines to $5