certain innovative approaches that can be integrated into the scaled up/replicated projects: community involvement in the project at different levels such as at sub-district, district, provincial and federal level. The involvement of community is aimed to develop ownership of the project in the local community and as an accountability measure. The representation of community and its mandate can be decided after rigorous thought processes in the coordination meetings. Midterm Evaluation Report 65 5. Conclusions Policy change is a complex and painstaking process that requires clear-cut, precise and well-timed interplay of a multitude of factors. In a given context, what contributed the most to policy change is credible evidence. Building on this principle, project on Accelerating Policy Change, Translation and Implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Commodities in Pakistan (P&D Project) developed, gathered, communicated and popularised the child survival as a policy agenda item on the lists of federal and provincial governments. At the time of inception, landscape analysis, baseline and evaluability studies were conducted to generate evidence, inform the project planning with ground realities and to identify drivers and barriers for policy making. The project achieved/completed/accomplished the causal chain of policy change, its translation and implementation for revised and updated commodities for management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Pakistan during the stipulated timeframe. The evaluation has also revealed the spill over effect of the project interventions leading to achievement of broader benefits in its streams of interventions, including the updating of DHIS tools, revision of IMNCI manuals and Essential Medicines Lists. Through coordination support during these revisions, opportunities were harnessed by the relevant stakeholders in government, within Unicef and other development partners to update other areas of maternal and child health. These amendments, like EPI indicators in DHIS, were originally beyond the scope of this project but were made possible through strong stakeholders engagement during policy translation processes. Policy change is unpredictable. No matter how calculated and premeditated the engagement and advocacy efforts are timeliness of actions is crucial to constitute an opportunity for change. The project has managed to achieve concrete milestones and outcomes on child survival during a short span of time. It was only possible because the project team availed all the available windows of opportunity and positioned their evidence to inform the policy change, its subsequent translation and implementation. Policies covering the entire continuum of care around childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea have been translated into actions