‘Cluster-randomized Programme Effectiveness Study of Community Case Management with Zinc for Childhood Diarrhoea in Southern Mali’, Bulletin of the World Health Organization (in press); World Health Organization, Department of Child and Adolescent Health and Development, ‘CAH Meeting Report: Consultation to review the results of the large effectiveness studies examining the addition of zinc to the current case management of diarrhoea (India, Mali and Pakistan)’, 30-31 January 2008. BOX 7 Zinc: Critical to diarrhoea treatment, but largely unavailable in developing countries Diarrhoeal diseases: The basics 2 17 Preventing and treating childhood diarrhoea: Where we stand today 3 SECTION 18 Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done Preventing and treating childhood diarrhoea: Where we stand today 3 Nearly 1 in 4 people in developing countries practises open defecation Source: World Health Organization/United Nations Children’s Fund, Progress on Drinking Water and Sanitation: Special focus on sanitation, UNICEF, New York, 2008. Note: Improved sanitation facilities refer to (1) ﬂush or pour-ﬂush to a piped water system, septic tank or pit latrine (2) ventilated improved pit latrine (3) pit latrine with slab (4) composting toilet. Unimproved sanitation refers to (1) ﬂush or pour-ﬂush to elsewhere (2) pit latrine without slab or open pit (3) bucket (4) hanging toilet or hanging latrine (5) no facilities or bush or ﬁeld. FIGURE 6 19 Prevention Water, sanitation and hygiene Improving access to safe drinking water and adequate sanitation, as well as promoting good hygiene, are key components in preventing diarrhoea. Yet a recent WHO/UNICEF report36 indicated that, in 2006 (the latest year for which data are available), an estimated 2.5 billion people were lacking improved sanitation facilities. Moreover, nearly 1 in 4 people in developing countries were practising indiscriminate or open defecation (Figures 6 and 7). To further compound the problem, children’s faeces are often unsafely disposed of in many developing countries.37 Children’s stools tend to carry a higher pathogen load than adults’, and many children play in areas in which stools are found. Safely disposing of them is therefore critical for reducing the number of diarrhoea cases. Between 1990 and 2006, the proportion of the developing world’s population using an improved drinking water source rose from 71 per cent to 84 per cent (Figure 8). Still, almost 1 billion people lack access to improved drinking water sources, and many households do not treat or safely store their household water supplies. Rural access to