health care providers in the private sector is according to the global recommendations 105 POLICY ANALYSIS 106 The goal of the project is to ensure that the relevant national policies are in place, understood and adhered to in order to ensure availability of the essential commodities for improving management of childhood Diarrhea and Pneumonia and increasing Child Survival by the end of 2019. THE PROBLEM AND THE POLICY (IES) Pakistan’s National Vision for coordinated priority actions to address challenges of reproductive, maternal, newborn and child health and nutrition, reflects an augmenting political commitment to maternal, newborn, and child health. The vision focuses around main challenges impeding further reduction of maternal and child mortality, including insecurity and the countrywide mal-distribution of limited human resources in the health sector; inequitable access to care, drinking water and sanitation; low quality of interventions and limited capacity in planning, management and evaluation. Health vision with a holistic focus on system strengthening, included key policy directions i.e. vigilant use of existing funds, investing for social protection, public performance accountability, coordinated and joint target achievement with private sector, regulation, producing quality human resources and standardized health services. It has been studied that although formation of drug policy is an integral component of national health policy, it has not been updated since the year 2000. In context of GAPPD recommendation of improved sanitation facility to prevent Diarrhea and Pneumonia, this landscape study revealed that Pakistan published its National Sanitation Policy in 2006 and has not updated the same since then. However, few pertinent and effective projects including Pakistan Approach to Total Sanitation (PATS) and UNICEF’s Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) programs are taking the agenda forward through emphasizing the need for achieving and sustaining an open defecation free environment both in rural and urban areas. Regarding the policy on community case management for Pneumonia and Diarrhea, Pakistan has made a commitment to adopt WHO and UNICEF recommended IMNCI and iCCM guidelines at facility and community level. Although Pakistan has been implementing this strategy since the late nineties, but it has failed to scale up at the required level, resulting in implementation in 10 districts across Pakistan only. Another key intervention in this regard, has been the initiation of Child Survival and Health Grants Program (CSHGP) introduced with an implementation framework for community case management to improve the community care-seeking behavior, however its encouraging impact is yet to be