with adequate stock of medicines to meet the demand. They believed that their estimations, patterns of diseases and seasons should be kept under consideration while providing supplies. They held limited budget responsible for insufficient supplies. A facility in-charge from Sindh explained, “If we demand the medicines for 1000 patients, the higher authorities dispatch medicines only sufficient for 500 patients for a year.” 4.2.4.6 Tracking of Shortages Many facility in-charges suggested that there should be a tracking mechanism for keeping a check on stock every week or at least every month by the higher authorities. It was believed that they should immediately meet such shortages by replenishing the stocks. A facility in-charge from Punjab precisely stated, “There should be a check and balance system to maintain uninterrupted supply of medicines and commodities.” 4.2.4.7 Opinion about LHWs Facility in-charges held conflicting views about the performance of LHWs affiliated with their unit. Some were quite satisfied with their in-field counterparts while others were highly disappointed. Those who were pleased with their performance, acknowledged their role in treating diseases as well as their contribution in the society. A facility in-charge from Sindh revealed, “The LHWs role is critical, beneficial and result oriented to overcome these diseases…They can bring stability and awareness at a societal level.” Another one from Sindh reinforced, “Our LHWs and CMWs are very committed to overcoming Pneumonia and Diarrheal diseases. They are our front women when it comes to curing any disease at street level. We must train them to treat all diseases…” Nonetheless, there were facility in-charges who had doubts about the competence of LHWs. A facility in-charge from Punjab clarified, “…these workers don’t have the required temperament to perform their actual roles. There should be a penalizing and rewarding system for such workers to improve their performance.” Another facility in-charge from Punjab reiterated a similar view, “They don’t know how to deal with cases of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. They don’t know about severity of such diseases…If more dosage is given, patient can become critical. They do not have the required educational background for management of such diseases.” 49 Summary of Perspective of Facility In-charges • Keen on training but dissatisfied with the funding, quality and venue for it. Getting TA/DA for trainings was nearly impossible, held government responsible for it. • Ambulance service was in a dismal state • There was certain level of awareness, acceptability and availability of