are very rare these days.” Poor standard of living and low literacy rates were held responsible by the facility incharges for the current situation. Most patients came from poor households; many did not have access to basic facilities, with lack of cleanliness being the biggest concern. They lived in dismal conditions where cause and spread of diseases was not only unprevented and unmonitored, but also promoted and encouraged. Impure and contaminated water was a major hazard of such living conditions. A parent from Punjab revealed, “There is also unavailability of pure/clean water for drinking. Community uses same contaminated water for cooking meals, washing utensils and hands. Patients normally come to hospital for their treatment.” The low literacy rates of the communities were also a major reason behind the lack of awareness regarding disease prevention and spread. Facility in-charges were aware of this reality, and many even held it responsible as the primary component of the community’s susceptibility to diseases. A facility in-charge from Sindh asserted, “The (low) literacy rate is also one of the main factors behind spread of such diseases. The community in Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 74 the catchment area is not aware about the practice of hygiene and how infections are spread.” A facility in-charge from Punjab provided an elaborate response, “… People are very poor and cannot afford good living standards. The low literacy rate is also one of the main factors behind spread of such diseases. Health information sessions should be arranged to give awareness to community about nutrition and hygienic conditions.” Common Forms of Treatment With reference to accessing treatment, facility in-charges most frequently mentioned self-treatment, quack doctors and allopathic treatment. Hospitals were often stated as the last resort, with many patients only visiting after being dissatisfied with other alternatives. Self-treatment – Mostly facility in-charges believed self-treatment to be a popular form of treatment, often being the first step taken by the patient for combatting disease. This could largely be attributed to the fact that many people lived far away from proper health facilities with transport being a big concern. A facility in-charge from Sindh reflected, “Mostly people are aware of these fatal diseases. Mostly people try to get cured through self-medication. If they fail, then they head towards health facilities.” However, a facility in-charge from Sindh had a different perspective on self-treatment and assumed it could lead to adverse health effects, further