and rural areas, marketing efforts would need to focus healthcare providers working in such areas. M/S ZAFA has expressed willingness to contribute financially in implementing promotional strategy developed jointly with joint consultation of all stakeholders. 5.6 DEMAND AND SUPPLY GAP ANALYSIS 5.6.1 Amoxicillin Dispersible Tablets Based on assumption that about 16 percent children of under five age suffer from Acute Respiratory Infections (ARIs) including Pneumonia, approximately 74 million Amoxicillin DTs will be required to treat RTIs, provided Amoxicillin DT is considered the drug of choice for all cases. In reality, however, in the presence of other substitutes including syrup formulation of Amoxicillin and broader spectrum antimicrobials, the actual demand for Amoxicillin formulations remain considerably low. Moreover, a little over 69 percent seek care for suspected Pneumonia and around 50 percent receive antimicrobial therapy. At present, ZAFA is the only known local manufacturer of Amoxicillin DT in Pakistan with a production capacity of 1.4 million tablets per day. Thus ZAFA, which also manufactures API of Amoxicillin itself, can alone meet the total perceived requirement in only 53 workdays. In view of prevalent care seeking behavior and available substitutes in the market, the actual demand is presumed to be around 50 percent (37 million DTs). There is thus an estimated gap of 35.5 million tablets. During 2016, ZAFA produced 1,560,000 tablets, about 4.2 percent against this perceived need chiefly for lack of demand generation. While determining the need, it is assumed that each patient of ARI would require receiving course of 15 tablets (3 tablets per day for 5 days). At present, the selling price of one DT is PKR 4 per dispersible tablet of 250 mg strength. If ZAFA meets this requirement, it will generate total revenue of PKR 162 Million, excluding amount generated out of exports. The company claims to already have total market share of over PKR 4-5 billion. 5.6.2 Zinc Dispersible Tablets An estimated 100 million dosages of Zinc sulphate are required for 14 days treatment of under-five Diarrhea patients, based on assumption that 23 percent under five children (7,072,644) suffer from Diarrhea each year in Pakistan. As the survey indicated, Zinc sulphate in syrup form was found at majority of visited health facilities and pharmacies, but dispersible formulation, which is now a preferred choice as per WHO recommendations, was not available at any surveyed health facility and pharmacy. The production capacity of five pharmaceuticals mentioned above is