these services. In the face of advancements in medical sciences and technology, the performance of healthcare delivery system seems to have floundered when it comes to consistently providing high quality care to all (Institute of Medicine, 2001). One of the most commonly cited definitions of quality, in the context of the healthcare delivery system, defines it as the extent to which the services rendered by the 9 health sector for individuals and populations, increases the likelihood of achieving the desired health outcomes that are consistent with current professional knowledge in diagnostic and treatment processes of healthcare (Institute of Medicine, 2004). Pinning down definitive criteria for quality is an arduous task and it is nothing more than a set of value judgments that are applicable to several aspects, properties, ingredients or dimensions of a process called medical care (Lee & Jones, 1933). Some hold the view that quality is a function of what happens at the frontline (Wilcock, 2010). This means that eventually quality strictly depends upon how care is delivered to the recipients of health services. This propagates a more patient centered approach and asserts that quality depends on whether patients receive the care that they need and more importantly, whether the care received is effective (Campbell et al, 2000). This is reaffirmed in another definition where quality of healthcare has been expressed as a compound of clinical effectiveness, safety and patient experience (Darzi, 2008). Other health experts house the opinion that quality should be more focused on outcomes rather than patients. The World Health Organization however, addresses the quality quandary differently, the initial definition of quality put forth by the organization specified it as ‘proper performance (according to standards) of interventions that are known to be safe, that are affordable by the society in question, and that have the ability to produce an impact on mortality, morbidity, disability and malnutrition’ (WHO, 1988). Later, this definition evolved as it was realized that quality was more of a contextual phenomenon that required local interpretation by health policy makers and managers, so that policies and practices can be tailored according to the specific needs of the system. Thus, quality improvement means taking a snap shot of the whole system, paying close attention to individual service users and the community at large, and emphasizing on delivering effective, efficient, accessible, acceptable, equitable and safe healthcare service to all (WHO, 2006). As it can be