established with the mandate of regulating the healthcare establishments in the Punjab province. Sindh on the other hand is in the process of establishing the healthcare commission. According to the Punjab healthcare commission, currently there are around 13000 private practitioners in the province and they have been able to register 50 % of these practitioners. Therefore with this lack of regulation the role of the independent bodies like FPAP (Family Physicians association of Pakistan), PMA (Pakistan Medical Association) and PPA (Pakistan Pediatric Association) becomes critically important. Furthermore, the role of the pharmaceutical firms through their medical representatives becomes more important in changing the prescribing behavior of the private practitioners. It is therefore of critical importance that the pharmaceutical manufacturers be taken on board for this purpose. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 181 Final Outcome 3: Local Production of Proposed Commodities Outcomes (Strategic Objectives) Activities Primarily Responsible Supporting Partner Indicators Federal Level The updated commodities are being produced at the domestic level by the local manufacturers Establish and operate the production promotion working group (MNHSR&C, DRAP, Pharmaceuticals, PPA, UNICEF) MNHSR&C and DRAP UNICEF • Production Promotion working group notified Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 182 Description of Operational Modalities & Stakeholders Currently, there is almost limited demand for most of the proposed commodities. However, it is encouraging to find that there have been a substantial number of firms that have registered for the production of some of these commodities. Additionally, the price offering on the basis of projection models presents a sustainable revenue model especially when some products will serve as an alternative to already existing and established products. However, the registration process and the investment scenario need to be facilitated and incentivized. Without a robust private sector manufacturing these commodities, it is impossible to sustainably supply the masses. Interest of the manufacturers cannot be generated unless there is a strong market case supported by adequate projected demands over the next few years. Furthermore, the process has to be incentivized and facilitated on the different levels for promoting investment in these commodities. Making a business case for the firms and protecting the rights of the patients will require multileveled efforts. As a first step, it is important that a Production Promotion Working Group is notified. Simultaneously, it is important that efforts on the demand creation through the change in the prescribing behaviour of the healthcare providers are carried out on war