supply, distribution. Besides it includes the transportation, maintenance and repair, communications, environmental SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 19 management of health facilities, record and reporting, supervision and logistics training5 . In LMIC, lower buying power of patients, hinders the access to essential medicines; leading them to opt alternate therapies especially in rural areas. It has also observed, that inappropriate prescription and dispensing of medicines; creates the gaps to access the essential medicines6. WHO, described, that one of the key component of the functioning health system; is provision of access to affordable, appropriate and high quality medicines. The access of essential medicines; is the outcome of integration of finance, planning, service delivery, and information management and governance system7. The studies conducted in different areas of Pakistan have also referred the issues of the supply chain management of medicines in public sector. The access to medicines is a big challenge for poor in Pakistan. One of the issues regarding the access to essential medicines, as reported in different studies; is, that the government spends very little on health sector. It has also been reported, that such issues include lack of policies legislation and regulation, wastage of resources, mismanagement, lack of knowledge and capacities and infrastructures etc. The in-depth situation analysis of the supply chain management of medicines, will help in analyzing the SCM system of public sectors through WHO’s recommended procedures and guidelines. The results of the analysis, will support the recommendations for policy or procedures change; to improve the access of essential Medicines to combat Diarrhea and Pneumonia. 2.8 Researcher’s Introduction The study has been conducted by Public health consultant who is pharmacist by profession. Previously he has worked for WHO, TRF plus, GAIN and other multinational pharmaceutical industries. 5Battersby, A., & World Health Organization. (1985). How to assess health services logistics with particular reference to peripheral health facilities. 6World Health Organization. (2008). Medicine prices, availability, affordability and price components: a synthesis report of medicine price surveys undertaken in selected countries of the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region. 7World Health Organization. (2004). WHO Medicines strategy 2004-2007: countries at the core. 03 METHODOLOGY SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 22 METHODOLOGY 03 The methodology of assessment is mixed analysis that is quantitative and qualitative analysis. The quantitative analysis is based upon the Logistics System Assessment Tool (LSAT) developed by USAID Deliver Project and recommended by WHO8 for the assessment of logistics /