high cost. A facility in-charge from Punjab emphasized its benefits and higher costs, “Low osmolarity ORS is more beneficial than regular ORS because absorption is better in low osmolarity and it is more isotonic as compared to regular ORS. However, Low osmolarity ORS is not provided at our facility… The reason can be its higher price than regular ORS.” 47 When facility in-charges discussed DTs and Zinc DT in particular, their availability, acceptability and practicality of usage emerged as major themes. These three factors were linked with each other as well as with the awareness about DTs as a form of medicine. Usage of DTs was mostly discussed in comparison with syrup. Facility incharges shared varying responses regarding the awareness of DTs; some were familiar with them while most of them hadn’t even heard of them. A comprehensive response about DTs came from a facility in-charge in Punjab while comparing syrup to DT; “Antibiotics are used in routine for the treatment of Pneumonia…I have heard of antibiotics in DTs form. Syrup is a better option. Syrup is easily taken. DTs are not easy in use and have a bitter taste. But DTs are more effective. Such DTs are not available in the market. I don’t have any idea about people’s perception about DTs, mainly because DTs are not available at our facility.” 4.2.4.1 Availability & Acceptability of New Medicines Majority of facility in-charges believed that Zinc DTs were unavailable in the market. They also associated the unavailability of DTs to lack of awareness of such form of medicine. A facility in-charge from Punjab said, “… I have never heard about Zinc DTs. The community’s perception can only be known if DTs are available in the market and are prescribed by doctors.” Among the few exceptions who were aware of Zinc DTs stated, “…Zinc DTs are not provided at our facility, so I don’t have any idea about its advantage over syrup or vice versa.” DTs garnered varying views from the facility in-charges on its acceptability in the community. A few, who didn’t seem to be entirely sure about DT medication, answered saying it might generate a positive response from the community. Similarly, many assumed that they would not be able to win over community support due to various factors. However, some maintained that if doctors prescribed them regularly, they might become popular in the community. 4.2.4.2 Practicality Practicality of DTs