The project had limited scope and role in creating awareness among communities for social and behavioural change. However, LHWs were engaged over project timeline for raising awareness on exclusive breast-feeding, hand washing and immunisation. UNICEF, in partnership with BMGF, aims to improve child survival in Pakistan. UNICEF’s project “Accelerating Policy Change, Translation and Implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea Commodities in Pakistan” focus on reducing under five infant deaths related to these illnesses. In order to raise positive awareness about the use of updated commodities, and transmit messages that highlight the benefit, job aids comprising of flip charts, standees, table flyers, patient counselling cards and posters were developed, printed and distributed for service providers both at community and facility levels by UNICEF. EQ: How effectively various Federal Ministry and Provincial Health Departments and Programmes coordinated among each other? EQ: Whether the mechanisms available to create awareness among communities are effectively linked to the project objectives? Midterm Evaluation Report 52 KII’s and Discussions carried out at different tiers at District and Provincial levels in both Punjab and Sindh reveal that these job aids were able to improve the knowledge of Public health care providers and community workers around the benefits of using revised commodities. However, at community levels, there has been little demand for uptake for DTs thus far. To Caregivers it seemed that the word “tablet” prompted the notion that tablets were hard to swallow by children; hence syrup was a better choice. A facility in-charge from Sindh mentioned, “Demand of syrup in children is comparatively more. DTs are often perceived as substance hard to swallow and hence not drug of choice.” Caregivers, had limited understanding and knowledge about the usefulness of new formulation of ORS in comparison to regular and were not aware whether they were provided with low or regular ORS in health care facilities and by LHWs. Sustained, regular health education efforts at community level are required to overcome knowledge and information barriers and increase community awareness round these updated commodities. More efforts and investments need to be put in place in order to expand service outreach, including through the training and deployment of additional lady health workers combined with the continuation and intensification of community mobilization activities to leverage greater results for child survival. Finding: There is evidence to support the need for structured and regular trainings on management of P&D to enhance proper utilization of updated