one while others considered the opposite. Generally GPs were unsure about its availability in the market. Similarly, most GPs were unaware of zinc dispersible tablets (DTs) and amongst the few who were aware, they were unsure of their availability in the market. A GP from Punjab revealed, “Yes, oral Zinc has very important role in treatment…we have Zinc Sulphate at our clinic. I have never heard about Zinc DTs before.” Another GP from Punjab said, “Yes, I have heard of Zinc DTs. They are better than syrup because of their ready to use nature. But such Zinc DTs are not available in the market.” Among the GPs who were aware about Zinc DT, were doubtful of its practicality. A GP from Sindh justified syrup’s preference in these words, “Dispersible tablets dissolve in water, because the water is contaminated so syrup is better than dispersible tablets.” A GP from Punjab supported zinc syrup because, Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 91 “Syrup has taste. Taste is main factor of acceptance or rejection of such medicine.” There were mixed responses of GPs as to whether the treatment of diarrhea and pneumonia was affordable in their catchment area or not. The GPs also had varying opinions about the approximate cost of pneumonia and diarrhea treatment. A couple of GPs from Sindh estimated the cost to be PKR 200-300 while another one from Sindh believed the treatment cost to be between PKR 500-700. One of the GPs in Sindh voiced the lack of cost effectiveness of the nebulizers, “… in private hospitals the cost of nebulizing the child is PKR 600, which is not affordable for poor people.” Some GPs also emphasized social issues like poverty, illiteracy and unemployment, which caused impediment in acquiring proper treatment. A GP from Punjab vented on this, “Cefim Syrup's price is PKR 150/and daily wage worker in my catchment area is PKR400/per day.” A few GPs mentioned that injections were relatively more expensive. Almost all GPs believed that oxygen was important for the treatment and most of the GPs from Punjab categorically mentioned that their facility did not have oxygen and it appeared that the reason was affordability. GPs frequently cited that the severe cases were referred to a higher public health facility. Most GPs claimed to be quite sympathetic towards their patients and said that they try to be considerate and corporate with them as much as possible.