of outreach services? Probe: i. Describe working relationship between LHWs and LHS ii. Do officials (e.g. DDOH, DOH or EDOH) usually make informed or surprised monitoring visits? iii. Do they provide supportive or traditional supervision? Do you get appreciation for good work? CASE REPORTING AND DOCUMENTATION 11. How Pneumonia and Diarrhea cases are routinely recorded and reported? Probe: i. What is the frequency of reporting? ii. Where these reports are sent? iii. Do you receive feedback from health authorities? iiii. Do health authorities use your data for managing supplies and improving quality of services? 11. ANNEX 162 COMMUNITY BEHAVIOR AND RESPONSE 12. What are the issues that you encounter while managing cases of Pneumonia & Diarrhea in the community? Probe: i. Do majority of clients like receiving drugs or prefer home remedies? ii. Do you face any resistance or displeasure during your home visits? iii. Do you feel any security threat while working? SOCIAL BELIEFS AND TABOOS 13. What is the general level of awareness about health issues among the local community? Probe: i. Do you feel cultural beliefs and practices could be one reason for not seeking proper treatment for Pneumonia and Diarrhea? If yes, please explain. ii. Are there taboos regarding diet for children suffering from Diarrhea and Pneumonia? If yes, give examples. iii. Do you think, raising awareness level of the community can improve utilization of services for Pneumonia and Diarrhea at community and facility level 163 SUGGESTIONS FOR IMPROVEMENT OF SERVICES 14. I’d now like to ask you to summarize your role in the provision of Pneumonia and Diarrhea services? What else do you think you need to improve the quality of Pneumonia and Diarrhea services at community level? Probe: i. To what extent are you satisfied with your services? If not much satisfied, why not? ii. What must be done to improve the quality of Pneumonia and Diarrhea services at community level? REVISIT OF YOUR SESSION If the following issues do not arise spontaneously during the answers to the above questions, you may want to raise them yourself. Note: Avoid asking direct questions as much as possible; rather, prompts should be in the form of ‘give us an example of …’, ‘what do you think of …’, ‘tell us more about … 1 Accessibility and catchment area 2 Disease Load 3 Knowledge and skill 4 Availability of treatment protocol/guidelines 5 Availability of medicine and supplies