of all BHUs and RHCs and submit the report on monthly SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 88 Indicators Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs basis. b. How often? In public and private partnerships, the monitoring visits are at least once a month for each health facility. 11 Is the information system automated at the following levels: a. central? The manual LMIS has its limits, and medicines stocks information share the limited information through other information system like DHIS i.e. stock out in ‘yes’ and ‘no’ status and not the quantities available at the health facility. DHIS provide the information of health facility level of all the provinces except mentioned above. Sindh: Computerized LMIS shares the stock levels at the district warehouse (not in the health facility). Punjab: In Punjab, the DHQ hospitals inventory management system, is upgraded, it is a computerized real time data management system which is automated at all levels. It gives the information of stock balance, consumed, stock outs and near expiry medicines. b. regional? c. district? d. service delivery level If no to questions 11 a–d, skip to 13. 12 Briefly describe the functions and processes that are automated. Forecasting of medicines is automated, stock-out reports, Monitoring of stock outs in all provinces, Monitoring of stock outs, stock balance, near expiry medicines at DHQs and teaching hospitals of Punjab SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 89 Indicators Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs 13 Is external assistance provided to manage the information system? Describe. Punjab Information Technology Board, has provided IT assistance to developing the inventory management system software and its management. 14 Is the information system used to monitor and evaluate the program’s performance? Availability of Essential Medicines (stock out status) is one of the key performance indicators of the program. 15 How is logistics data recorded, managed, analyzed, and used at each level? Detail is mentioned in table # 7. 16 What indicators related to logistics and/or product availability does the information system track (e.g., stock out rate, percentage of reporting, rational prescribing practices, etc.)? The available Information management system is mostly at