Federal Government (25) inspect each Manufacturing Unit, at-least twice a year (>1300); those of Provincial Governments (150 with Punjab Government) are assigned market surveillance. The samples collected randomly during surveillance, from pharmacies, hospital, clinics and homes, are tested in the Central and Provincial Drug Testing Laboratories. On average, around 70,000 tests are done in Central DTL in one year. There are 8 Drug Testing labs in Punjab, and one each in Sindh, KP and Baluchistan. If the drug is found to be sub-standard, the case is referred to the Provincial Quality Control Boards or to Drug Courts, which is authorized to take any punitive action. Periodic campaigns are run by DRAP against the spurious drugs in collaboration with FIA and raid is conducted at the sites, where productions of spurious drugs are reported. According to the DRAP rules, the production in-charge of the Pharmaceutical Industry should be qualified B. Pharmacist with 10 years’ experience (a Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 133 proposal to reduce experience requirement to 6-8 years is currently under consideration). And similarly, in-charge QA and QC should be equally qualified or be a qualified Chemist. Respondents of our survey were of the view that, “Good quality clinical studies of international standard are sparsely conducted in Pakistan. Although 1% profit is collected from all pharmaceuticals for R & D, but barely few research projects are submitted to us.” At present, only 18 clinical trials are being conducted all over Pakistan due to lack of training and effective accountability. DRAP has developed new rules for the bio-studies in the light of WHO guidelines and the draft has been sent to the federal cabinet for approval. There are 4 designated labs in the private sector; including Husain Ebrahim Jamal Institute of Chemistry Laboratory (HEJ Lab) and one in Dow Medical College in Karachi, which are fully capable for conducting bioequivalence studies. The DRAP does not carry out bio-equivalence studies. It only reviews reports submitted to it by any of these standard labs. Unfortunately, such local studies are rarely conducted in Pakistan, which is a major deficiency. There is a need to conduct comparative studies locally, as there is also apprehension whether low osmolarity ORS should actually be recommended for children residing in Pakistan, where in extreme hot weather and intense sweating more electrolytes are liable to be lost compared to any western country. Current Market Trends Pattern of prescriptions reaching