venue was at district level or at THQ. Most of the GPs emphasized the need 51 for trainings to keep them updated with the latest developments in the field. A GP from Sindh elaborated, “We have done MBBS in 1996-97… now treatment approaches have changed and we must know about them.” Apart from regular trainings, the quality of the training was also very important. A GP from Punjab who had received such training was not satisfied with its quality, “I found shortcoming in such trainings in terms of communications skills.” One third of the GPs said that they were provided with guidelines and protocols. The remaining GPs were either at least aware of the existence of such protocols or were totally unaware. Those who were completely unaware, used their experience in treating patients. Most of the GPs were of the opinion that a need existed for training for the correct and appropriate use of protocols. The practicality of the use of protocols was also questionable. Hence, designing protocols effectively and customizing them to the local needs required to be quite beneficial. Except for one, all GPs from Punjab emphasized their competency in dealing with childhood diseases before acknowledging the need for conducting such trainings. One stated, “I feel, I have skills/competency to diagnose and treat patients with such diseases. I have received no such training in my whole life.” Training was also perceived as a form of acknowledgement of their contribution to the society. 4.2.5.3 Government Role in Trainings Resentment towards the government was prevalent among the responses. Most GPs held government responsible for such trainings not being conducted. A GP from Punjab stated that, “It’s not priority of the government.” There was also a common perception among the GPs that pharmaceutical companies and health department carried out such trainings. It also seemed that GPs working in private clinics particularly felt left out as they associated the lack provision of guidelines to the private setup. Similarly for the under-provision of these guidelines, protocols, and their trainings, almost all GPs held government responsible. Summary of Perspective of GPs • Unavailability of clean drinking water was the root cause of all diseases • Acceptability of DT required testing prior to scale up • Keen on trainings, wanted government to play a more active role in organizing trainings, wanted government to act more responsible 4.2.6 Perceptions of Pharmacy In-Charges According to pharmacy in-charges,