the work/ targets described here may have been accomplished already; for example, a plan may already have been developed. In this context, it is more important for countries to move forward with implementation, rather than to repeat planning work that has already been done. Examples of actions for implementing some of the key interventions (water, sanitation and hygiene, vaccination, case management, breastfeeding, emergencies and elimination of paediatric HIV) are detailed in Annex 2. For more specific planning, national or sub-national authorities are advised to use the situation analysis guide and planning framework developed from the country and regional workshops on pneumonia and diarrhoea in 2011 and 2012 (Annex 3). This guide can help to identify the key gaps and opportunities to scaling up interventions in a coordinated way, and provide a formalized mechanism for different programmes to discuss key issues together. 20 Box 5. List of key actions needed to implement/scale up coordinated country work on pneumonia and diarrhoea protection, prevention and treatment • Develop a clear country-level strategy and work plan, with key responsibilities assigned generate political will; develop/update a situation analysis for pneumonia and diarrhoea; prioritize interventions; develop/update a costed plan for accelerated action; identify areas of harmonization and collaboration between programmes and sectors, including the private sector, academia and civil society; use data to identify groups at greater risk or missed by services and develop targeted approaches to reach them; develop a set of common indicators for tracking progress. • Coordinate implementation of interventions designate a national working group for pneumonia and diarrhoea prevention and control or review membership of an appropriate existing group; mobilize resources; apply lessons from other integrated disease prevention and control efforts; track execution and progress; take and/or assign accountability for action. • Engage and embed critical partners in the overall work plan/approach involve other programmes and sectors; involve the private sector and NGOs; engage the United Nations agencies and development partners. • Other actions promote innovations, especially for overcoming barriers to service delivery; generate demand and ensure supply; focus on implementation research and identify optimal modes of delivery of existing interventions in order to reach those most in need. Develop a clear country-level strategy and workplan, with key responsibilities assigned • Generate political will Advocacy using available global and national information should be carried out at all levels in order to persuade policyand decision-makers, including those who make resource allocation decisions, to