9, the vaccine preventable diseases were included (Polio, Hep-B, Meningitis, Measles, Diphtheria, TB, Tetanus, Pneumonia, pertussis while diarrhea due to Rota virus). The vaccine for Rota virus was also under discussion. The cold chain is required for the above mentioned vaccines. The storage conditions for the vaccine are much better than the routine medicines. Punjab: The cold chain rooms were available at the provincial and district levels. At health facilities ILRs were provided. 5 Are cold chain storage resources (e.g., refrigerator, paraffin/kerosene, and temperature chart) available at all levels of the system, where appropriate? The cold chain storage resources for vaccines were available at all levels. This includes cold chain rooms, special vehicles for transportation, ILRs, ice packs and vaccine carrier boxes. 6 How is the cold chain monitored to ensure that products are consistently maintained at appropriate temperatures? (Check all that apply.) All the refrigerator provided were not equipped with thermometers, temperature log sheets etc. guidelines are available for the vaccines storage only. 7 Is the existing storage capacity adequate to handle the current quantities of products at the following levels: a. regional? 0.33 Y Y Y N N N N N N N N N N N N Y N N N N b. district? 0.33 Y Y Y N N N N N N N N Y N N N N N N N N SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 112 Indicators Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs c. service delivery point? 0.33 N N N N N N N N N N N N N N N Y N N N N 8 Can the existing storage capacity handle all the quantities needed to ensure that no stock outs occur at the different levels? The central warehouses: The existing storage capacity is insufficient to handle the required medicines. The purpose build warehouses (warehouse that meet all the standards / requirements) were not available in the districts assessed. The stocks were also placed in extra room, corridors, garage etc. Whereas, warehouses of the PPP have sufficient space, due to the increase in the frequency of supplies. It has increased to manage the stocks in the available space. Health facilities have insufficient spaces especially for DHQs and THQs. The storage space provided