province, is quite a challenge. Funds are transferred to the districts through PFC and each district then releases only 11% of total budget to cater for health operational expenditures. EML has been updated in 2017. Department of Health has notified very essential list of medicines for MNCH to include LO ORS, Zinc DT and preferably Amoxil DT. In case if they are not included in MCC list, the districts are instructed to procure them through local purchase following KPPRA rules. On the contrary, MHSDP includes these commodities, but not in DT form. According to DLIs, LHWs should have Zinc and Amoxicillin for the management of diarrhea and pneumonia. Low Osmolarity ORS is also being procured and provided with health facilities. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 71 Summary of Findings from Policy Environment Analysis • Advocacy needs to be done at the highest level because child deaths due to pneumonia and diarrhea don’t create the necessary political push • Government of Sindh has drafted first Child Health Strategy which focuses on necessary interventions at the strategic level • Provincial Health Sector Strategy of Punjab lacks an emphatic focus on Child survival • No Child Survival Group was found at the Federal Level • Recommendations of the CSG need to be made incumbent upon the government. • LHWs have a very important role in reducing mortality and morbidity due to pneumonia and diarrhea • Sindh has evidence based medicine cost estimation while Punjab has no such procedure • Sindh has already included the Amoxicillin and Zinc in the EML with the word “preferred” • Essential Medicine Lists at the federal and Punjab level contain Amoxicillin and Zinc in the “Solid Oral Dosage Form” • USAID USP-PQM is already working to promote the quality of medicines in Pakistan • Validity and reliability of data gathered from district and received at the highest point is questionable, Data is not analyzed at the district level • Sindh and Punjab have already started the process of updating the DHIS and LHW MIS • CM-SMU serves as a great opportunity for monitoring of key areas of health in Punjab. • Need for a dedicated focal person for pneumonia and diarrhea in the office of DGHS Sindh for monitoring purposes Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 72 Management of Pneumonia & Diarrhea This section is based on qualitative data analysis of responses from various stakeholders who are involved in