order to reach those most in need. Develop a clear country-level strategy and workplan, with key responsibilities assigned • Generate political will Advocacy using available global and national information should be carried out at all levels in order to persuade policyand decision-makers, including those who make resource allocation decisions, to commit to reducing child deaths from pneumonia and diarrhoea. The interest and willingness of high-level political figures to dedicate national resources to pneumonia and diarrhoea will be critical for ensuring success. Relevant, evidence-informed material (e.g. the GAPPD, Pneumonia and diarrhoea: Tackling the deadliest diseases for the world’s poorest children (10), etc.), and if available, a national situation analysis should be provided to policyand decision-makers. With this information, policy-makers can make informed decisions and can identify the actions required to overcome countryor region-specific barriers. Parliamentarians and parliamentary committees may be targets of advocacy, and may themselves become advocates for increasing budgets. Political will can also be generated by publicizing credible estimates of the local economic costs of pneumonia and diarrhoea, and by promoting national and subnational prevention campaigns via media organizations and social communication. At the same time, other significant national and local stakeholders, such as NGOs and potential donors, need to be identified for similar advocacy efforts. Potential champions who can help to generate enthusiasm should be sought. • Develop/update a situation analysis for pneumonia and diarrhoea The situation analysis should review current population intervention coverage and levels of support available. It should also identify current barriers to accessing and scaling up interventions, and suggest ways to overcome them. It may include an assessment of the vulnerabilities, hazards and/ or capacities at various levels and across interventions that may put communities at risk for emergencies or outbreaks. The analysis should identify policy issues that need to be addressed, such as whether or not trained CHWs are permitted to provide antibiotics for pneumonia at the community level. The analysis should also include formative research on key behaviours that are essential to the prevention of diarrhoeal disease (e.g. handwashing with soap, exclusive breastfeeding, use of ORS, etc.), as well as formative research on the enabling environment (e.g. structures, hardware and commodities necessary to facilitate the desired behaviours). This process enables identification of appropriate interventions that can be scaled up immediately, versus those that will take longer or may need additional support to be put in place. Most of the information needed for