and lag time during Eid holidays, data collection process was started with some delay. Another limitation was that only five districts in Punjab and Sindh were selected as part of this research design, which resulted in data that may not be generalized or representative of entire provinces. Moreover, seeking security approval was also a major challenge for data collection in districts of southern Punjab. However, it was mitigated through maintaining a continuous liaison with the Provincial Home Department. NOC to conduct research in Muzaffargarh could not be obtained due to security reasons; hence mitigation strategy adopted after mutual consultation with UNICEF team was to replace Muzaffargarh with Pakpattan. Some of the KIIs were rescheduled quite a few times in order to make the sessions more convenient for the respondents. This limitation was mitigated by maintaining a continuous rapport and liaison with relevant respondents. 33 RESULTS & FINDINGS 34 This chapter provides findings of the qualitative research as expressed by the policy makers, planners, managers, service providers in the in-depth interviews and FGDs. Findings start with description of the policy environment, followed by management practices for childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea, concluded by perspective from users of child health services. 4.1 POLICY ENVIRONMENT The goal of the project is to ensure that the relevant national policies are in place, understood and adhered to in order to ensure availability of the essential commodities for improving management of childhood Diarrhea and Pneumonia and increasing child survival by the end of 2019. The scope of the study was to identify the barriers and facilitators to the process of this policy change. In this regard, detailed consultations were held with the civil servants, vertical program managers, leading paediatricians, health policy experts, public health experts, MNCH specialists, and representatives from development partners and technical experts at the Federal and provincial level. Moreover, health officials and vertical program coordinators at the district level were consulted for an in depth analysis into the factors that might facilitate or hinder the management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea according to the global recommendations. The analysis of the findings is being presented in the thematic areas relevant to the policy change, translation and implementation. 4.1.1 Political Will & Commitment It was reported that recently the focus on the health has increased at the political level. Specifically, Punjab has improved the health budget and the health department has been bifurcated into two departments for