no restriction on co-packaging of the same after purchase. While one local company was found to be licensed and manufacturing Amoxicillin DT, over 15 companies were already registered with DRAP to manufacture Zinc DT and Low Osmolarity ORS. Five medium to large sized key ISO 9001 certified pharmamanufacturers, located in north, south and central region of the country, exhibited the required production capacity and expressed willingness to fully meet nationwide need and readiness to cooperate with UN agencies in launching advocacy campaigns to enhance demand. Based on the findings and recommendations, a joint accountability framework was prepared that identified the interventions with the allocation of responsibility. This framework assigned indicators to every intervention for measuring the progress. The accountability framework has been crafted after meticulously taking into consideration the formal and informal factors that might facilitate or hinder the processes mapped out for the following identified outcomes: • Putting in place updated Policies and Strategies. • Incorporation of global recommendations in clinical management practices. • Local Production of Proposed Commodities. • Strengthening of supply chain and logistics management of new commodities. • Budgeting for the new/Updated Commodities 1 INTRODUCTION 2 INTRODUCTION Nearly 396,800 children die in Pakistan every year in contrast to 99,200 who die in the entire developed world (Lozano et al., 2011). The divide between industrialised and developing countries is greater on child mortality than on any other issue as no other mortality is as unequal. Improving child health and survival remains at the center of global health initiatives. In Pakistan, child health services are under-developed and under-resourced, access to commodities to manage childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea remains a serious and major concern, with expected outcomes not predictably achieved and wide variations existing within healthcare systems. This also indicates that there is limited knowledge regarding the access to the commodities for management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea, leading to rationale of this research for devising a practical, feasible and workable accountability framework to ensure commodities access in both public and private sectors of Pakistan. In view of this situation, UNICEF and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) established a partnership to contribute to increased child survival in Pakistan through improving the diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children under 5 years of age. The project “Accelerating policy change, translation and implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities in Pakistan”, is being implemented in close coordination with the