noted during key informant interviews: 3.6.1. Sindh Province 1. Recently the Sindh Government has changed the system of allocation of budgets for the ‘procurement of drugs and medicines’. Until 2015-16 the budget under this head was allocated to DDOs and hence it was possible to ascertain how much budget was allocated to each district. From 2016-17 the budget is being allocated to divisional heads. This has reduced visibility and transparency of the budget allocated at the district and sub-district levels. 2. In 2015, a process of district action plans was started in the district government with the help of USAID. The district action plans, prepared with the help of consulting support, formed the basis of allocation of scarce budgetary resources as per the priorities of the districts. It was a system through which incrementalism in the budget was replaced with needs and priority based allocations. This system however, was later discontinued with 20 the completion of the project. The government currently does not have the capability to implement the system of formulation of district action plans on its own. 3. There were budget releases issues encountered by IHS the organisation that manages Rural Health Centres in Sindh. For this reason, the RHCs visited that were managed by IHS did not have required stocks of medicines available. 3.6.2. Punjab Province 1. The Punjab Government has recently established a Health Facility Management Company to oversee the management of Basic Health Units. Earlier BHUs in a large number of districts were managed by the PRSP (Punjab Rural Support Programme). The PRSP had been operational for the past few years and their budgetary management systems have matured over the years. The creation of a new entity is likely to see disruptions in management of the budget, procurements, and maintenance, due to its recent establishment. 2. Lately, the Punjab Government has established District Health Authorities, that are headed by Chief Executive Officers (CEOs). The budget for procurement is reportedly being provided to these newly created authorities. Separate bank accounts are made operational where initial funds have been transferred by the provincial Finance Department. It has been informed that the provincial government is struggling to appoint relevant personnel in these authorities. Till the full appointment of required staff members, the management of the budget, the procurements, are required reporting is likely to suffer. 3.6.3. Balochistan Province 1. While the budget is allocated to DDOs in the