on private healthcare providers in all districts. Care seeking behavior of children suffering from Diarrhea was least in Muzaffargarh (49.1%) and highest in Lahore 86.7%. Moreover, private healthcare providers were preferred in all districts of Punjab. Child Survival and Health Grants Program (CSHGP) introduced an implementation framework for community case management to improve the community care-seeking behavior. Implementation framework is based on three key elements including (Child Survival & Health Grants program, 2016): • Improving partnerships between health facilities and communities they serve. • Increasing appropriate and accessible healthcare and information from community-based providers. • Integrating promotion of key family practices critical for child health and nutrition. 16 2.4.2 Supply of Low Osmolarity ORS UNICEF and WHO recommends low-osmolarity ORS for treatment of Diarrhea, as the earlier composition of ORS does not reduce stool output or duration of Diarrhea. For this reason, since last two decades numerous studies were undertaken for introducing ‘improved’ ORS. The objective of these studies was to introduce a product that would be at least as safe and effective as standard ORS for preventing or treating dehydration from all types of Diarrhea but which, in addition, would reduce stool output or have other important clinical benefits. One successful approach was to reduce the osmolarity of ORS solution, so as to avoid possible adverse effects of hyper-tonicity on net fluid absorption. This was done by reducing the solution’s glucose and salt (NaCl) concentrations (WHO, 2002). 2.4.2.1 Efficacy of Low Osmolarity ORS Efficacy of ORS for treatment of children with Diarrhea was improved by reducing sodium concentration to 75 meq/l, its glucose concentration to 75 mmol/l, and its total osmolarity to 245 mOsm/l. Studies proved that use of low osmolarity ORS reduces IV supplement need to 33%, stool output to 20% and vomiting by 30% (WHO & UNICEF, 2002). 2.4.2.2 Effectiveness/Efficacy For children with acute non-cholera Diarrhea, reduced osmolarity ORS solutions (215-245 mOsm/l) with 75 mEq/l or less of sodium and 75-90 mmol/l of glucose are safe. When compared with standard ORS solution, these solutions were associated with reduced stool output, reduced vomiting and, especially, reduced need for unscheduled IV therapy. With regard to reduced stool output and reduced vomiting, this benefit may be somewhat greater for solutions with <75 mEq/l sodium (210-260 mOsm/l) than for a solution with 75 mEq/l sodium (245 mOsm/l). However, in terms of reduced need for unscheduled IV therapy, the benefit was similar