mortality in Pakistan are available since the 1960s. These data show that IMR declined from 140 deaths per 1,000 live births in the 1960s to 105 in the mid-1980s, Midterm Evaluation Report 12 and further to 85 deaths per 1,000 live births in the mid-1990s. However, the pace of infant mortality decline appears to have slowed down since then. As would be expected, the variations in infant and under-five mortality across provinces are wide. In 2017-18, the IMR ranged from a low of 53 in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to a high of 73 in Punjab. The inter-provincial variations in U5 mortality rate are even greater – from a low of 64 in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to a high of 85 in Punjab (PDHS, 2018). A series of Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey (MICS) and Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) has revealed that the gap in mortality between rural and urban areas is consistent, with infant mortality in rural areas is 23 and 27 and points greater than in urban areas of Punjab and Sindh, respectively. 1.1 Object of Evaluation – Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project With partnership of UNICEF and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the project “Accelerating Policy Change, Translation and Implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Commodities in Pakistan”, was initiated in 2016 with total investment of USD 12,516,903. The project was designed to improve the diagnosis, treatment as well as prevention of Diarrhea and Pneumonia in Pakistan by 2020. Working in close collaboration with Government of Pakistan and relevant stakeholders, the overall purpose was to implement a programme based on an integrated global action plan for the prevention and control of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and contribute to the efforts to increase child survival in Pakistan, particularly by strengthening policy solutions for better diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in girls and boys under 5 year of age. Aim of programme is to bring together evaluative interventions, warrant a healthy environment, promote practices that help decrease illnesses, and ensure that every girl and boy has access to proven preventive and treatment measures through evidence based updated medical commodities for Pneumonia and Diarrhea. The programme aims to link the most disadvantaged children and women with an integrated package of high impact and good quality healthcare commodities, with a special focus on systems strengthening and ensuring a continuum of healthcare. The project has made significant progress to meet its objectives through support in