at the same time, these managers expressed their helplessness because Pneumonia and Diarrhea being silent killers were not creating the political will and commitment required to tackle these diseases at a massive level. This came out as an overarching theme. It was suggested that the national health vision and policy and provincial strategies must put an emphatic focus on child health, with special reference to Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Managers strongly suggested the introduction of the interventions related to Pneumonia and Diarrhea in the strategic and operational plans of the Federal and Provincial governments. 4.1.3 Child Survival Group The Child Survival Group in Punjab has conducted six quarterly meetings so far. The Child Survival group created its own core group that meets fortnightly to check the progress of implementation, which is later shared with other CSG members. Similarly, Child Survival group in Sindh has conducted five meetings so far and has made some progress on the matters related to Pneumonia and Diarrhea. It was suggested that the recommendations 36 of CSG be made binding upon the government instead of the traditional role of advisory given to such groups. Moreover a provincial manager stressed the importance of assessing the meetings of CSG on scoring criteria for efficiency and accountability.​ 4.1.4 Environment for Updating Commodities Availability of medicine is a very critical factor that determines the outcomes in the different facets of health service delivery. The quality enforcement of the drugs in the market was described by one manager as: “We are getting daily alerts about spurious and sub-standard drugs; even some are manufactured by registered firms.” Representative of a District Health Authority in Punjab described the additional demand of medicine in these words:“The district can spend up to 5 lac rupees per year on the purchase of medicines to meet sudden increase in demand of medicines arising out of any disease out-break. However, .. this amount is reserved to cover days and relocate medicines from one health facility to another to meet emergency needs.” Furthermore, managers strongly urged the need of generating local evidence for greater acceptance of commodities. In this context, examples came out of the PAIMAN project and introduction of Chlorhexidine in Pakistan. Moreover, an overwhelming number of managers urged the need of cogent arguments for the use of updated commodities. Specially, the replacement of suspension with the dispersible tablets needed to be supported with robust arguments. The role of