and process-oriented strategy by addressing all distinct phases of policy cycle through identified influencers and processes – starting from problem identification and policy formulation to its implementation and evaluation of the potential outcomes. Problem identification is the most critical in the policy process. In proposed advocacy campaign, agenda setting shall involve processes and activities through which researchers and analysts can exert the greatest influence on decision-making (‘the intelligence functions’). Empirical data and scientific analyses shall set the stage and provide context by defining problems and translating them into simplified images, which shall tend to sidle into policy deliberations. A key component of the strategy shall be translating these problems and solutions into simplified images and understandings that speak to the interests and concerns of non-expert publics, including politicians and decision makers. The adoption and implementation of policy entails more than analysis. Research has identified that a policy reform initiative may be altered or reversed at any stage by the pressures and reactions of those who oppose it, as intent to implement a policy is not the same thing as a real policy (Anderson, 1997). Policy advocacy is mainly about systemic mobilization of attention, which can be best achieved through broad-based advocacy coalitions. In the proposed advocacy campaign, such coalitions may be the network of individuals and organization sensitized on issue of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and its impact on child survival. SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES AND STRATEGY MATRIX Target Audience Influencers Strategies Tools and techniques Politicians, Policy makers and planners Academia / intelligentsia and Policy entrepreneur Collaborate with champions to reach out to and convince relevant politicians and assembly members working on health and finance to convince policymakers and planners about the positive link between lives lost due to silent killing diseases like Pneumonia and Diarrhea and their effect on infant mortality and morbidity, making Pneumonia and Diarrhea a top agenda item. Advocacy must be aimed at the government to increase evidence-based budget allocation and long-term monitoring mechanisms in place to monitor and strategize effective management of both diseases. Directly with politicians, policy makers and implementers: National and Provincial Forums, advocacy coalition, seminars, round tables, face-to-face meetings, policy briefs. 110 The politicians should be reached out during this upcoming electoral process to put the emphatic focus on Pneumonia and Diarrhea in their manifestos. Media (electronic / print) The government and implementers in line departments should be encouraged to continue implementation to improve access