(GSEP) analysis. Latest rounds of available datasets like PSLM, PDHS, MICS, HFA and NNS, Audit reports and financial documents with necessary information were taken into account. Routine information systems including DHIS, LHW-MIS and LMIS were also be a part of the review for their potential for updating and building linkages. Moreover, provincial and district offices were also visited to obtain relevant data as indicated in ‘Evaluation Matrix’. 3.4 Evaluation Team A team of experts having the required skill mix was organized for efficient and effective completion of the evaluation activities. The organogram of the midterm evaluation team is given in Figure 4 and details of individual team members are given in Annex 2. 3.4.1 Roles and Responsibilities A Principal Investigator led the team that included evaluation and research experts, medical anthropologist, data manager and field data collection teams. Technical team was working in close association for developing tools and the collaboration continued in data collection and data analysis. Research associates as well as transcribers were engaged after the data collection phase. Field team comprised of field manager who supervised field teams. Technical team members participated in data collection at federal and provincial levels along with all interactions with the UNICEF counterparts. Field teams were responsible for gathering information at district level. Four field teams conducted facility-based survey, each team with 4 persons. 1 team was formed in Punjab with 1 male supervisor and 3 other team members (2 females and 1 male). In Sindh, 3 teams with similar composition were established. For District level KIIs, FGDs and case studies, 4 teams of Sociologists (1 Moderator and 1 Note taker in each team), 1 team in Punjab and 3 teams in Sindh were formed. Punjab’s team covered all the 3 districts in Punjab while 3 teams in Sindh catered to the 9 districts of Sindh. It was ensured that all field team members were fluent in native language and well versed in local customs. Teams were identified, recruited, organized, trained and supervised. Guidance and support was sought throughout the evaluation process from backstopping team comprising of health policy and systems expert and procurement and supply chain expert. Figure 4: Organogram of Evaluation Team Backstopping & Advisory Team Principal Investigator Evaluation Expert Research Expert Research Associate Qualitative Research Expert Medical Anthropologist Transcribers Senior Bio-Statistician/Data Manager Field Manager/ Supervior Field teams Enumerators Sociologists Midterm Evaluation Report 31 Through this qualified and experienced team,