achievement of project objectives as the future need assessments and performance analysis shall be made on the basis of these revised tools. The above mentioned arrangements done by Government clearly depict their intent and commitment to making P&D project sustainable even when UNICEF assistance is concluded. Finding: Challenges faced are mitigated through enhanced government ownership and increased focus on P&D. The commitment and resolve of the Government and Partner Organizations is of paramount importance in determining fate and shape of P&D project in future. This commitment in other words is formative of sustainability of this project. Government has taken multiple steps in making P&D project a success and also for the continuation of these activities as one of its own, even beyond 2019. The revision of IMNCI guidelines, addition of DTs and LORS in EML and Procurement Lists, updating of DHIS reporting tool and inclusion of six commodities in MSDP have all contributed substantially in achieving a good part of the goal of sustainability of P&D project. All the Health Department Officials showed their zeal in the project activities and were fully aware of all the events being carried out in health departments in this regard. One of the Health Department Official told, “…These services regarding Diarrhea and Pneumonia are satisfactory according to our sources” Not only health managers displayed ownership to the project but also health facilities’ staff members were equally involved in its implementation and provided positive feedback; one of the staff member from health facility told, “…Medicine supply provided by UNICEF is very effective”. Another important factor in sustainability of this project is un-interrupted budgetary allocations to buy commodities for Pneumonia and Diarrhea in sufficient quantities. Currently, EQ: What internal/external factors and drivers contribute to or constrain the sustainability of the project? Midterm Evaluation Report 63 there is a mixed trend in availability of these commodities across different districts of Sindh and Punjab; most of these commodities were available but in many facilities the situation was otherwise. However sustainability demands the availability as well access to these commodities of most of if not all of the respective patients of Pneumonia and Diarrhea being reported to the public sector healthcare providers (both fixed and outreach staff). One of the health facility staff members told, “…target is too much and medicine is very limited”. Trainings and refresher courses/trainings play a vital role in capacity building, developing ownership of the