conducted in accordance with training agenda (see Annex 3), in a systematic manner and a conducive environment to promote better understanding and learning. Accommodation was arranged for the trainees and trainers at training sites. Training content constituted of goals and purpose of study, ethical considerations, interviewing techniques, techniques of filling out tools, field procedures, quality assurance, timely completion of data collection and detailed review of qualitative guides for interviews and focus group discussions. These sessions also included finalization of micro plans, availability of all printed materials, e.g. tools, training manual, maps, name-tags and note pads etc. Mock interviews between participants were also conducted and field simulations with actual study respondents Technical Team led by Health Policy Expert Public Health Expert Research Expert Field Teams Data Collectors Procurement Expert Public Policy Expert Research Associate Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 43 were held as well. Training manuals were also developed and provided to each member of the field team. These contained clear instructions and guidelines for interviewers to refer to in case of any confusion. Field teams were also trained to overcome any inherent biases during data collection. For example, it was expected that pharmacy in-charges would not have a very positive feedback on the GPs. Similarly LHWs were anticipated to have a high regard and high level of satisfaction with Lady Health Supervisors (LHSs). This was further proved by the collected data. Nonetheless field teams were already taught to filter such information. Field team for conducting in-depth interviews comprised of 2 interviewers while for FGDs the team constituted of 3 members. Recruitment of interviewers for the fieldwork was done from relevant geographic locations to overcome cultural and language barriers. Each data collection team was designated a female or/and male interviewer depending on the target audience, along with a male regional supervisor to create a gender balance. The gender of the interviewee was matched with the gender of the primary interviewer in order to create a comfort level and address gender specific sensitivities. Data Collection Total duration of fieldwork was 30 days, including travel time. Interviews of officials at policy level were conducted by a research team of two from Contech’s head office. Interviews of personnel involved in the treatment and management of diarrhea and pneumonia were conducted by the field teams who were provided prior training. Male regional supervisors observed the interviewers to ensure that the interviews were conducted properly, asking