more active during the diarrhoea episode; its use has also been associated with increased ORS uptake. The provision of zinc tablets by health workers may also reduce the demand from caregivers for other less eﬀective drugs, such as antibiotics and antidiarrhoeal medications, which should not be routinely administered. Zinc is critical for overall health, growth and development. It also supports proper functioning of the immune system. Though widely found in protein-rich and other food sources, zinc deﬁciency is widespread throughout the developing world and has been associated with higher rates of infectious diseases, including diarrhoea, and deaths from these illnesses. Zinc stores are further depleted during diarrhoea episodes, and supplementation as a part of treatment programmes is critical for replenishing the body’s reserves – helping children to recover from illness and stay healthy afterwards. Clinical studies have shown that a 10to 14-day treatment course with zinc effectively reduces the duration and severity of both persistent and acute diarrhoea. Zinc has been associated with a 25 per cent reduction in the duration of acute diarrhoea, as well as a 40 per cent reduction in treatment failure and death in persistent diarrhoea. The recent introduction of zinc tablets into large-scale diarrhoea treatment programmes in India, Mali and Pakistan suggests that it may be even more effective than clinical trial results indicate. Zinc appears to increase ORS uptake and reduces inappropriate drug use with antibiotics and antidiarrhoeal medications. Children receiving zinc tablets appeared to recover more quickly, had increased strength and appetites, and were less ill than other children in their communities. In fact, a Malian mother noted that her son had “gained strength and energy unlike ever before,” which echoed the sentiments of many other caregivers. Sources: World Health Organization, Department of Child and Adolescent Health and Development (CAH), ‘CAH Progress Report Highlights 2008’, WHO, Geneva, 2009; Bhandari, N., et al., ‘Effectiveness of Zinc Supplementation plus Oral Rehydration Salts Compared with Oral Rehydration Salts Alone as a Treatment for Acute Diarrhea in a Primary Care Setting: A cluster randomized trial’, Pediatrics, vol. 121, no. 5, 2008, pp. e1279-e1285; Winch, P.J., et al., ‘Cluster-randomized Programme Effectiveness Study of Community Case Management with Zinc for Childhood Diarrhoea in Southern Mali’, Bulletin of the World Health Organization (in press); World Health Organization, Department of Child and Adolescent Health and Development, ‘CAH Meeting Report: Consultation to review the results of the large effectiveness studies examining the