Diarrhea. The programme aims to link the most disadvantaged children and women with an integrated package of high impact and good quality healthcare commodities, with a special focus on systems strengthening and ensuring a continuum of healthcare. The project has made significant progress to meet its objectives through support in development and updating of national/provincial policies and guidelines in line with the global recommendations for the management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan. UNICEF provided technical support to update and revise child survival related policies and strategies aligned with Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD) and WHO updated recommendations, including updating Early Childhood Diseases (ECD) sensitive IMNCI guidelines, Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT and Lo-ORS were included in provincial Essential Medicine Lists (EML), procurement lists, and in the Minimum Service Delivery Package (MSDP) in Punjab. Promoting gender equality and child rights is fundamental to the fulfilment of UNICEF’s core mandate. Gender equality is not just an essential human right, but also a foundation for a peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world. Its principles apply to both development and humanitarian contexts. In the past, differential approach of curative health services was the main cause of greater survival of boys than girls (Booth and Verma 1992). Until recently, infant mortality was higher for females than for males, reflecting a trend common in the country. However, the recent Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDSH, 2018), this trend has reversed; showing female infant and under five mortality to be considerably lower than male infant and under five mortality. Similarly, there was no difference in care seeking behavior in cases of ARI (84.1% for girls and 84.4 for boys) and Diarrhea (70.0% for girls and 71.5% for boys). Since this programme contributes to reducing childhood morbidity and mortality caused by Pneumonia and Diarrhea, it frames gender equality as one of the development objectives. Health protection and services for poor families are crucial, given their pre-existing poor health and nutrition status to ensure equity. In 2017-18, the IMR of the poorest families was Midterm Evaluation Report 13 almost 43 percent that of the richest families. Regarding U5MR, disparity is even wider with more than 78 percent increase in U5MR between poorest and the richest wealth index quintiles (PDHS, 2018). Considering a significant proportion of Pakistan’s population are poor, ensuring health protection and services for this group remains a daunting challenge. Presence of