available at www.childinfo.org. Data used in this report The data used in this report were derived from a range of sources, which are summarized below. Childhood diarrhoea burden Estimates of the global and regional number of diarrhoea cases and deaths are based on the Global Burden Disease project, and are for the year 2004 (the latest year estimates are available). The project provides a comprehensive assessment of mortality and loss of health due to diseases, injuries and risks for all regions of the world. When reviewing these estimates, it is important to note that the distribution of under-ﬁve deaths by cause refers to the primary cause of death. The estimated percentage distribution of cause-speciﬁc mortality for the year 2004 was applied in this report to the 2008 envelope of total under-ﬁve deaths worldwide (8.8 million in 2008) to arrive at the number of under-ﬁve deaths due to diarrhoea globally. Prevention and treatment coverage Data on prevention and treatment interventions were derived largely from national-level household surveys, notably the Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS), supported by UNICEF, and the Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), supported by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). Information from the surveys are compiled by UNICEF Headquarters and made available in a series of public-access databases found at www. childinfo.org, which are also published annually in The State of the World’s Children report. 38 Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done Treatment indicators Oral rehydration therapy with continued feeding – Proportion of children aged 0-59 months with diarrhoea receiving oral rehydration salts or recommended homemade ﬂuids or increased ﬂuids, and continued feeding during the diarrhoea episode. This indicator reﬂects the UNICEF and WHO programme recommendations for diarrhoea treatment (with the exception of zinc). The recommendations were developed on the basis of broad consensus by leading experts in the ﬁeld during a UNICEF and WHO advisory meeting in 2004,45 and re-conﬁrmed in a 2007 follow-up technical conference.46 ORS packets – Proportion of children aged 0-59 months with diarrhoea receiving oral rehydration salts during the diarrhoea episode. This indicator is based on information provided by mothers or caregivers. Caregivers are asked whether their children suﬀered from diarrhoea in the two weeks prior to the survey. If so, they are then asked if the child received a ﬂuid made from a special packet of ORS or a pre-packaged ORS ﬂuid (where applicable) during the