The CSG comprises of almost all the stakeholders and so far its decisions have not faced any hindrance from the decision makers in the province. Accountability in the context of public health is an interesting topic when it comes to Pakistan. Unlike United Kingdom or other western nations where public health comes as a strong election agenda and point of debate, public health, historically has not been certainly one of the yardsticks for the masses to choose the representatives. This lack of demand from the masses has been fuelled by lack of education, unemployment, poor accountability mechanisms and the complete absence of capital market intermediaries. Furthermore, the watchdogs like the mass media were not immune to an attitude of indifference to the issues like public health. However recently, political developments and the robust growth of mass media have brought the issues of public health to the national debate. Furthermore, increased development assistance from the development partners in the last decade has tremendously increased the focus on public health. Resultantly, there has been an enhanced focus on the accountability of the health services. One important example is the stock-take by the Chief Minister of Punjab (largest province of Pakistan by population). Stock take requires every district officer health of the Punjab province to be answerable for the progress on the prioritized areas on the monthly basis to the office of the secretary. Chief Minister himself takes the stock take on quarterly basis. This one exercise has dramatically improved the health system on certain indicators. It therefore becomes important that a Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 173 representative from the SMU is made part of the CSG and subsequently the indicators related to the pneumonia and diarrhea are included in the Chief Minister’s Health road map and stocktake. Sindh has made significant progress as far as necessary policy change is concerned. The draft of New Born Survival strategy is already pending approval. The essential medicine list already contains the new medicines in the term “preferable”. Health information systems are being updated. However it is worth mentioning that there is no structure like CM-SMU in the Sindh, it therefore becomes important that the DGHS puts in place a strong monitoring system. A dedicated focal person for monitoring the progress on pneumonia and diarrhea will help to keep track of the progress. Furthermore the following factors are necessary for successful implementation of accountability for