facility that suffers from Pneumonia and Diarrhea? ii. What is your view about the major causes of spread of these diseases in your community and how can this be prevented? iii. What type of treatment approach or professional help is commonly preferred in the community for these diseases (e.g. self-treatment, traditional healer, homeopathic, allopathic)? 2. I would like to know about the skill/competence of the staff at your facility for managing childhood illnesses? Can you please tell us about any training(s) received during the service for dealing such diseases? Probes: i. What in your view is the importance and benefits of in-service trainings for enhancing skill/competence to manage childhood illness, particularly Pneumonia and Diarrhea? ii. When was the last time you or any of your staff member received such training? If no, what could be the reason for not arranging such trainings? iii. Who usually arrange such trainings (like Health Department, development partners or pharmaceutical companies)? iiii. Are these trainings conducted at the facility or some outside venue? What is your preference for the venue of such trainings and why? v. What deficiencies did you notice in these trainings? In your view, how can these be improved? vi. If you have received training, did any refresher follow it? If no, what could be the reason for not providing refresher training? 11. ANNEX 134 3. Now, I would like to know about the use of protocols and guidelines (like IMNCI guidelines) for managing Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children at your facility. What are these protocols and guidelines, kindly explain? Probes: i. Can you please explain their usefulness in diagnosing and treating childhood illness? ii. If no such specific protocols/guidelines are available, can you please comment on the reasons? 4. Now, we will like to know about the diagnosis and management of Pneumonia at your facility? Please tell us how do you diagnose children suffering from Pneumonia? Probes: i. How do you diagnose and classify Pneumonia on the basis of its severity and does its treatment also varies accordingly? Kindly explain. ii. Do you think any particular equipment is essential for the diagnosis of Pneumonia? If there is any deficiency, please explain reasons for shortage of equipment. iii. How commonly antibiotics are used for treatment of Pneumonia? iiii. Have you ever heard of any dispersible (soluble in water) antibiotic tablet? If so, do you perceive any advantage of dispersible tablets over syrups?