used in iCCM are an important tool for ruling out malaria and knowing when pneumonia treatment is necessary. Other recommended actions • Be open to innovations Planners can integrate proven innovations to eliminate barriers to health and produce better outcomes. These approaches may be applied to all activities: leadership and management, financing (including incentives to achieve better performance and results), tools and interventions, service delivery, and monitoring and evaluation. Innovation can increase efficiency and impact. For example, mobile phone technology enables broad and nearly instant dissemination of information and reporting back of health data (see Boxes 11 and 12). Use of e-learning tools increases the number of training options at lower cost and thus coverage with trained health workers. New vaccines aimed at reducing pneumonia and diarrhoea can be integrated into existing immunization programmes while innovative vaccine delivery devices can improve acceptability of immunization. Task-shifting may increase capacity for delivery of key interventions (including iCCM). Innovative ways to help programmes and sectors work together can be included in planning and programme evaluation. The workplan of the United Nations Commission on Life-saving Commodities for Women and Children (15) includes work on innovation related to supply and delivery of commodities. Innovations in approaches to financing, both for service and product providers (e.g. loans and guarantees) as well as users (e.g. micro-credit), are expected to be critical for expanding access to modern energy (66). 26 Box 11. Stock: Creating an SMS system to improve the supply of child health medicines for CCM In Malawi, CCM was initiated in 2008, targeting children in hard-to-reach areas. Health Surveillance Assistants (HSAs) are a paid cadre of CHWs who provide CCM services in addition to their other responsibilities. Keeping HSAs supplied with essential medicines for CCM is difficult due to poor infrastructure, such as roads and communication. Often, decision-makers at district or central levels have little or no information on stock status at the community level, and so cannot monitor and address stock problems in a timely manner. The Malawi MoH, with support from the Improving Supply Chains for Community Case Management of Pneumonia and Other Common Diseases of Childhood project (SC4CCM) decided to test the use of mobile technology for improving communication between the HSAs and their resupply point. cStock is a rapid SMS, open-source, web-based system that was custom designed by SC4CCM for monitoring and managing community-level essential medicines and commodities for child health, family