that by the Provincial Managers in both Punjab and Sindh that UNICEF, has provided technical support to develop Pneumonia and Diarrhea specific modules and trainings. According to them, trickle down trainings were conducted for reporting tools on community level data “Provincial Master trainers conduct/arrange the trainings at district level and trained them for further trainings. And after this a group of district trainers trained the Hospital Staff at Facility or Taluka level.” Finding: ARI Timers and Pulse Oximeter are effective in timely diagnosis and severity of Pneumonia in children. According to World Health Organization statistics, main contributors to high infant mortality rates are acute respiratory tract infections and Pneumonia. In most of the developing countries, clinical indicators, such as compromised mental state, poor intake, cyanosis and respiratory rate>60, nasal flaring, and chest indrawing are used to identify the severity of Pneumonia (Stop Pneumonia, 2016). In children, hypoxemia and rapid respiratory rate are ominous signs associated with respiratory tract infections. Hypoxia can be detected easily with a device, Pulse Oximeter. MTE has proved the benefits of using pulse oximeter, a non-invasive, readily available and cost effective way to identify hypoxemia and categorize high-risk children with respiratory tract infections. Similarly, rapid respiratory rate can be calculated using an Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI) Timer. Hence UNICEF and WHO developed ARI Timer in 1990 to support health workers in determining how long they need to count a child’s breaths. There was no denying on the usefulness of ARI timers and pulse oximeter in timely and accurate management of Pneumonia. Facility in-charges from Punjab commented on the EQ: Whether the monitoring and reporting mechanisms exist and effectively implemented for effective tracking and improvement in system? EQ: How effective are the ‘innovative approaches like use of ARI timers and pulse oximeter, what results can be achieved, are replicable within the Sindh/Punjab context? Midterm Evaluation Report 54 benefits of ARI Timers and Pulse Oximeter, “ If used accurately, Pulse Oximeters are costeffective and efficient devices that can help detect cases of Pneumonia”. Majority of the health care facilities in both Punjab and Sindh were equipped with oxygen and pulse oximeters. Majority of the LHWs in the intervention districts of Sindh and Punjab were equipped with ARI Timers. ARI Timers were functional and available at health houses in Jacobabad, Tharparkar and Bahawalnagar. Some of the LHWs reported non-functional ARI Timers and limitation of knowledge on their usage. LHWs