focus on these diseases, which however dwindled as the directorate of communicable disease control (CDC) gradually became defunct. Trainings for healthcare providers related to child survival are also provided on continuous basis along with trainings on IMNCI guidelines. However, treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea is not an integral part of medical school trainings. Conversely, DHIS does contain Pneumonia and Diarrhea, while Diarrhea and dysentery are not differentiated. Unfortunately DHIS is not used in decisionmaking process nor is the data analyzed at district level. Data analysis is carried at a more macro level which is the provincial level, although there is no mechanism to quantify demand at this level. Essential Medicine List (EML) has been updated in 2017 in the province. DRAP is responsible for the updating and maintenance of EML, while Baluchistan PPRA MSD is responsible for updating the public procurement list. Supply chain management of medicines is not very efficient. Districts cannot procure medicines based on their needs nor is supply sufficient to meet the demand. Stock-out of commodities at health facilities is one of the major concerns. Similarly, Zinc or amoxicillin stock-out is not reported in the DHIS. Zinc sulphate is not being purchased regularly in the public procurement. Likewise, neither Zinc nor low osmolarity ORS is being regularly prescribed for the treatment of Diarrhea. Nutrition program and USAID’s DELIVER project is providing support in improving government’s supply chain mechanism yet the healthcare system is up against a lot of challenges. The healthcare professionals gave numerous suggestions and recommendations for improving and strengthening the healthcare system. Child Survival Group in Baluchistan needs to be established on similar format as the other provinces. Procurement expertise should be introduced in the healthcare department. They also suggested that vertical programs should be aligned with programs like LHW and MNCH Program, while policy and strategic framework needs to be updated for health programs. They also demonstrated keenness in assisting a detailed landscape analysis in the province and also in developing new and improving existing strategies in combating Pneumonia and Diarrhea along with their implementation. They were willing to collaborate with development partners like UNICEF to implement strategies to enhance child survival in the province. 4.1.10 KP: Perspective of the Province Interviews and discussions with personnel from the health department in KP revealed that the province has a single point agenda to achieve Universal Health Coverage. Department of Health is committed to cover