to any of the reference countries (e.g. China, Malaysia) but the drug molecule is already entered in the pharmacopeia, then DRAP’s TWO member Inspection team visits the manufacturer. However, if the manufacturer has already been inspected and approved by US FDA, then this step is exempted. The reports of these visits are examined by 2-3 experts before putting the case in the DRAP Board for approval. Timeline for technical approval It used to take more time earlier due to loads of pending cases of the past, but the situation has improved. If the product’s molecule is already in the Pharmacopeia, then it takes up to one year for the whole process to get completed. However, in certain cases, such as medicines for the control of dengue, hepatitis C, cancer and thalassemia, the process is accelerated out of queue through ‘Expedited Review Process’ in the high public interest. The process can similarly be expedited for any new product (newly developed molecule or a formulation, such as Zinc in dispersible form), if needed on urgent basis in the public interest. But such cases must be strongly supported by authentic research studies, preferably local, to get Board’s approval. Timeline for Pricing Process Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 132 After the registration process is completed and registration letter is issued by the Authority, the file is sent for pricing to ADPC section, which evaluate the proposal on a set criteria and approves the rate accordingly. If approved, the file is referred to the federal ministry for final notification. The federal ministry after scrutiny forwards the case to the cabinet division for the approval of Federal Government. As per new ruling of Supreme Court, Federal Government means Prime Minister and the Federal Cabinet. The timeline of pricing process is difficult to predict because of the busy schedule of politicians, however it may take minimum of 3-4 months. Quality Assurance and Pharmacovigilance This falls under the ambit of Quality Control and Quality Assurance Section of DRAP. There are teams of Drug Inspectors, both at the Federal level as well as Provincial level. While Drug Inspectors of Federal Government (25) inspect each Manufacturing Unit, at-least twice a year (>1300); those of Provincial Governments (150 with Punjab Government) are assigned market surveillance. The samples collected randomly during surveillance, from pharmacies, hospital, clinics and homes, are tested in the Central and Provincial Drug Testing Laboratories. On average, around 70,000