LHWs. Some groups were satisfied and believed that supply was adequate while others were not. Nonetheless all LHWs were unanimous that they were overburdened with other campaigns like polio. They admitted that regularization had made a positive impact on their performance. They also agreed that there is a dire need of trainings and refresher training, especially how to use ARI timers in treating Pneumonia. Finding: Effective coordination mechanisms between federal and provincial levels have been established in the form of TWGs and CSGs. Coordination as well as technical support from TWG and child survival groups were applauded by the respondents as these platforms provided opportunities to discuss challenges, share best practices and decision making for key actions. It was revealed that National RMNCAH TWG is a platform for policy dialogue and technical support for child survival activities and is a part RMNCAH&N at federal level. Policy makers agreed that meetings organized by CSG are of immense significance in uniting all relevant stakeholders on a single platform and discussing management of childhood illnesses. Federal and provincial level participants were all unanimous that the Child Survival Group should be institutionalized for a better standing in the health system. A respondent was of the view that CSG should be a similar institution as MNCH and LHW Programmes. Another participant also explained the distinction between the operation of CSGs in Punjab and Sindh, “In Punjab CSG is only child focused, whereas in Sindh it is MNCH based.” While discussing the achievements of CSG, a participant asserted, “Development of curriculum for LHWs, managing issues of supplies, identification of training gaps are all examples of practical challenges solved by the CSG.” Institutionalization of CSG is important in order to have a custodian who takes responsibility of the recommendations made by this group. During the data collection it was also observed that none of the respondents at policy level, even CSG members, were willing to take ownership of the group’s actions. As already mentioned in the baseline report, CSG recommendations need to be made mandatory and binding in order to value and to acknowledge their authority. Finding: The project had limited scope and role in creating awareness among communities for social and behavioural change. However, LHWs were engaged over project timeline for raising awareness on exclusive breast-feeding, hand washing and immunisation. UNICEF, in partnership with BMGF, aims to improve child survival in Pakistan. UNICEF’s project “Accelerating Policy