Pneumonia in Pakistan. Working in close collaboration of relevant stakeholders and Government of Pakistan, the overall purpose of this project is to contribute to the efforts to increase child survival in Pakistan, particularly by strengthening policy solutions for better diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in girls and boys under 5 year of age. Midterm Evaluation Report 22 3. Evaluation Methodology It is formative evaluation (intended to improve performance), where a mixed methods approach (quantitative and qualitative techniques) was employed and both primary and secondary data was collected, in wherever cases possible, disaggregated by gender. Rationale for mixing methods was to obtain complementary data on the outcomes of the interventions, viz., availability of revised and updated commodities at the public health facilities and their prescription to the children suffering from Pneumonia and Diarrhea whereas effects on treatment outcomes and acceptability in the population was assessed through qualitative techniques. Qualitative component comprised of desk review, key informant interviews, focus group discussions and case studies whereas quantitative was relatively small in overall evaluation design and comprised of health facilities checklist and prescription reviews. Guides and tools developed for this purpose focused on the entire pathway of policy transformation processes (policy change, policy translation, policy implementation and knowledge management). Meetings were held with the stakeholders and implementers to elicit information related to achievements and impediments during the Project, which informed and strengthened the interview guides and quantitative tools. The evaluation team worked in close collaboration with all stakeholders. UNICEF project teams from federal and provinces were closely involved through provincial consultative and preparatory meetings for seeking their inputs and feedback on evaluation approach. Stakeholders included federal and provincial governments, health facilities, outreach workers, private sector, donors and development partners and the ultimate beneficiaries. Gender mainstreaming was kept in consideration while devising the data collection process and tools. Gender balance was incorporated in the approach of the evaluation methodology along with exploring gender differentials and possible discriminatory practices against girl child during data collection. A conceptual framework for the midterm evaluation (Figure 2) was developed to describe the evaluation approach and techniques. Relevant methodologies were chosen for tracking effectiveness of different interventions and their effect on the beneficiaries. Figure 2: Midterm Evaluation – Conceptual Framework Midterm Evaluation Report 23 3.1 Evaluation Criteria and Questions Following the TORs of MTE, Evaluation Matrix (Annex 1) was developed considering the evaluation objectives as per OECD/DAC criteria