survival. The year 2008 marked the 30th anniversary of the AlmaAta Declaration, with reinvigorated calls to focus on primary health care. Lessening the burden of childhood diarrhoea ﬁts squarely with this emphasis, and is essential for achieving Millennium Development Goal 4: reduce child mortality, whose target date is now only six years away. 4 Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 1 SECTION The global burden of childhood diarrhoea The global burden of childhood diarrhoea 1 5 Mortality from diarrhoea has declined over the past two decades from an estimated 5 million deaths among children under ﬁve to 1.5 million deaths in 2004,7 which parallels downward trends in overall under-ﬁve mortality during this period. Despite these declines, diarrhoea remains the second most common cause of death among children under ﬁve globally (Figure 2), following closely behind pneumonia, the leading killer of young children. Together, pneumonia and diarrhoea account for an estimated 40 per cent of all child deaths around the world each year. Nearly one in ﬁve child deaths is due to diarrhoea, a loss of about 1.5 million lives each year. The toll is greater than that caused by AIDS, malaria and measles combined. Africa and South Asia are home to more than 80 per cent of child deaths due to diarrhoea (Figure 3). Just 15 countries account for almost three quarters of all deaths from diarrhoea among children under ﬁve years of age annually (Figure 4). Each year, an estimated 2.5 billion cases of diarrhoea occur among children under ﬁve years of age, and estimates suggest that overall incidence has remained relatively stable over the past two decades.6 More than half of these cases are in Africa and South Asia (Figure 1), where bouts of diarrhoea are more likely to result in death or other severe outcomes. The incidence of diarrhoeal diseases varies greatly with the seasons and a child’s age. The youngest children are most vulnerable: Incidence is highest in the ﬁrst two years of life and declines as a child grows older. 783 million South Asia 435 million East Asia & Paciﬁc ASIA 480 million Rest of the world Source: Based on World Health Organization, Global Burden of Disease estimates, 2004 update. The proportional distribution for UNICEF regions was calculated by applying the WHO cause of death estimates to the most recent estimates for the total number of under-ﬁve deaths (2007). Proportional