existed at any governance level. However, the Government of Sindh has taken the lead and drafted ‘New Born Survival Strategy’ keeping Sindh Health Sector Strategy as a base document. Some key interventions proposed in Draft ‘Child Health Strategy of Sindh’ are’ Sick new born care units; Under 5 care units; Helping baby breathing training; Infection prevention; Use of Chlorhexidine and Kangaroo Mother Care interventions. Some of these activities such as Chlorhexidine and Kangaroo Mother Care have already been initiated through the support of developing partners. It was informed that the Sindh government has notified the establishment of Under 5 Clinics in 2012, but this idea couldn’t be turned into reality until now. It was told that the health department has now started the process of establishing Under 5 care units in the DHQ hospitals only to be extended down to the hierarchies later on. System experts cited lack of focus on the child survival as a reason for drafting a separate strategy. A provincial manager in the Sindh Health department stressed the need of a robust office of the Director General Health Services in these words: “The post of Director MCH within DG office needs to be strengthened by provision of necessary staff and equipment to effectively oversee and control all maternal and child health related activities.” On the other side, there was no child health strategy in the government of Punjab. Furthermore, it was revealed that that both Punjab and Sindh have created District Action Plans and District Operational Plans addressing the child health services, which also included management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. It was found out that last year all the districts in Sindh have prepared their second medium term District Action Plans with the support from the USAIDs’ Health Systems Strengthening Project. It was revealed by most of the managers interviewed in Sindh, that as a part of the planning process, they placed Pneumonia and Diarrhea among the top priorities of the district. Subsequently, the districts planned activities and interventions for these commodities. Mostly, these activities comprised of outreach activities and trainings for the healthcare providers. However, at the same time, these managers expressed their helplessness because Pneumonia and Diarrhea being silent killers were not creating the political will and commitment required to tackle these diseases at a massive level. This came out as an overarching theme. It was suggested that the national health vision and policy