the opinion of most pharmacy in-charges, people tend to accept whatever formulation (whether syrup or DT) was prescribed by his/her physician as long as medicine remained within affordable range. The same view was also endorsed by majority of clients interviewed; one of whom said, “I provide my children whatever my clinician considers best, whether in syrup or tablet or any other form.” When asked, Pharmacists expressed willingness to keep dispersible formulations in stock provided adequate demand is generated through prescriptions. In case of non-availability of prescription drug, nearly half of the pharmacy incharges arranged it from other sources, a little over quarter referred the client to other source while the rest either provided substitute or simply regretted. Over the counter sale of drug on demand without prescription was hardly refused. Majority of pharmacy incharges felt no hesitation in prescribing medicines themselves, if so demanded by the clients. Rural community was more inclined to accept dispersible tablets, since it believed tablets were more effective than syrup. According to a Pharma Market Advisor/ Analyst, most people residing in the rural set-up believe, “…Tablet which gets dissolved in water carries more TASEER and thus speed-up recovery.” This tendency may be exploited to create demand for the dispersible commodities of Zinc and Amoxicillin in the rural community. In the urban areas, particularly mega cities like Lahore, anecdotal evidence from large-scale distributers and established retailers has revealed that overall demand for zinc remains low and is particularly sparse for dispersible formulation. Similarly the demand for low osmolarity ORS is not very different. Most of these Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 136 commodities are currently being supplied to cater to specific demand of pedestrians at select institutions. Supply of Pneumonia and Diarrhea Commodities Supply of pneumonia and diarrhea commodities was assessed by reviewing availability status of these commodities, at targeted public sector and private sector health facilities (GP Clinic) and its surrounding pharmacies. Overall, syrup amoxicillin, syrup zinc and parenteral fluids (Ringers lactate and 0.45% Normal/Dextrose Saline) were available at most of the assessed public sector health facilities in the rural areas. Low Osmolarity ORS was available in about half of the facilities. Amoxicillin injection was also available at majority of the health facilities. Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT and Co-packaged ORS with Zinc were however, not found at any of targeted facilities at the time of survey in both Sindh and Punjab. Amoxicillin and Zinc DT