improved literacy and increase in awareness as the major factor for such notion. Government health facilities seemed to be preferred above all other alternatives for treatment. While seeking 60 treatment at government facilities, some parents specifically mentioned that two factors were quite important; free services and accessibility. Free Services – It was observed that many parents weren’t satisfied with the services they received at a government hospital. Nonetheless, some parents said that they would visit again as those facilities provided free medication and they were the best possible option for treatment for most of the poverty stricken households. According to a parent from Sindh, “We like to visit this center most of the time. Medicines are available here too. If my child didn’t get well, I’ll again visit this same place because we cannot afford other health centers.” However some parents complained of substandard services and medicines not being free of cost. Accessibility – Many respondents complained that they found it hard to access the remote and far-flung government health facilities, being forced to either rely on home remedies or seek treatment in the expensive private hospitals. A parent from Punjab stated, “People have to go to private medical centers for availing the medical services because government health facilities are very far away from the access of people.” Another respondent from Sindh backed this up by saying, “We treat our child at home due to long distance.” Another parent from Sindh shared similar view, “…Travelling to the city is time consuming and expensive. BHU should remain open for 24 hours...” However, this was not the case with all parents and government health facilities were easily accessible for some of the parents. A parent from Punjab spoke in favor of accessibility of government hospital in these words; “Government medical services are free of cost and in access of every person. That is why we like to come in government medical facilities. We don’t face any difficulty in reaching this center.” Self-Medication and home remedies – Hardly a few parents opted for self-treatment yet it is worth mentioning as a source of treatment. A parent from Sindh elaborated on self-medication, “Poor people treat children at home first ... They also ask Molvi Sahab of the village for prayers. They give ORS to their child at home. If my child does not get better, we go to another hospital for treatment.” Home remedies