in the Table 2: The Inception Phase Contech team worked in close collaboration with UNICEF from the inception to the completion of this landscape analysis report. Immediately after signing of contract, an inception meeting for the proposed study with UNICEF team was held. The main agenda of the meeting was to develop consensus on deliverables including study design, methodology, implementation strategies and work plan. After incorporating feedback Table 2: Qualitative Sampling Matrix Research Technique Respondent No. Key Informant Interviews Federal Ministry, Associations and DRAP 4 Representatives from Provincial Health Departments 10 Development Partners and Donor Agencies 3 Officials from Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Companies 10 Managers at District Health Departments 10 In-charges of Health Facilities 10 General Practitioners 15 In-charges of Pharmacies 15 Parents/Guardian for Exit Interviews 35 Focus Group Discussions Community-based/Outreach Service Providers 5 Total Number of Sessions 117 Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 41 received from UNICEF team, a comprehensive work plan entailing key activities along with a timeline was prepared. Moreover, an inception report was also submitted with details of each research process and stage along with a research methodology matrix. This was approved by UNICEF team and led to the initiation of the research work. Research Team A team having necessary skill mix was formed for conducting an effective and quality research. Figure 6 demonstrates research team with its hierarchy. This research was led by a health policy expert who delegated tasks to experts in the field of public health, research, procurement and public policy. Research expert supervised field teams who further supervised data collectors. Each field team composed of two data collectors, an interviewer and a note-taker for KIIs and for FGDs a moderator/facilitator and a notetaker formed the field team. Field teams were monitored by field supervisors. A research associate was also on-board for this research. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 42 Figure 6: Organogram of the Research Team Preparing for Fieldwork Central level training workshops and orientation to train the data collection teams (interviewers and supervisors) in order to achieve uniform standards and quality control were conducted on 29th and 30th August 2017. Trainings were conducted in accordance with training agenda (see Annex 3), in a systematic manner and a conducive environment to promote better understanding and learning. Accommodation was arranged for the trainees and trainers at training sites. Training content constituted of goals and purpose of study, ethical considerations, interviewing techniques, techniques of filling