the public sector will require strong coordinated efforts. Health department will impart trainings at two levels. Before the induction of every 100 medical officer, there should be a training program which comprehensively addresses the training needs of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and then a refresher is conducted after every two years. 4. On the other hand, changing the prescribing behaviour of the private practitioners will need a lot of efforts. The private practitioners play a main role in the treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Punjab healthcare commission has been established with the mandate of regulating the healthcare establishments in the Punjab province. Sindh on the other hand is in the process of establishing the healthcare commission. According to the Punjab healthcare commission, currently there are around 13000 private practitioners in the province and they have been able to register 50 % of these practitioners. Therefore with this lack of regulation the role of the independent bodies like FPAP (Family Physicians association of Pakistan), PMA (Pakistan Medical Association) and PPA (Pakistan Pediatric Association) becomes critically important. Furthermore, the role of the pharmaceutical firms through their medical representatives becomes more important in changing the prescribing behavior of the private practitioners. It is therefore of critical importance that the pharmaceutical manufacturers be taken on board for this purpose. 6.3.3 Final Outcome 3: Local Production of Proposed Commodities Outcomes (Strategic Objectives) Activities Primarily Responsible Supporting Partner Indicators Federal Level The updated commodities are being produced at the domestic level by the local manufacturers Establish and operate the production promotion working group MNHSR&C, DRAP UNICEF, Provincial Health Departments, Pharmaceutical manufacturers Production Promotion working group notified Inclusion of updated commodities in the departmental procurement lists Provincial Health Departments Revised procurement list notified 6.3.3.1 Description of Operational Modalities & Stakeholders Currently, there is almost limited demand for most of the proposed commodities. However, it is encouraging to find that there have been a substantial number of firms that have registered for the production of some of these commodities. Additionally, the price offering on the basis of projection models presents a sustainable revenue model especially when some products will serve as an alternative to already existing and established products. However, the registration process and the investment scenario need to be facilitated and incentivized. Without a robust private sector manufacturing these commodities, it is impossible to sustainably supply the masses. Interest of the manufacturers cannot be generated unless there is