Factors that may influence supply include capability and capacity to use technology, profitability, presence of substitute, site of manufacturing plant and sustenance of demand. Factors which may influence demand include; affordability, availability/accessibility, operational and marketing strategies. Furthermore, they also demonstrated a readiness to cooperate with UN agencies in launching advocacy campaigns to enhance demand. At present, ZAFA is the only known local manufacturer of Amoxicillin DT in Pakistan with a production capacity of 1.4 million tablets per day. Considering prevalence of ARI and availability of substitutes and other competing factors, it is presumed that ZAFA alone can meet the requirement of Amoxicillin DT in just 53 work days if manufacture in full capacity. Based on assumption that 23% of under five children (7,072,644) suffer from diarrhea each year in Pakistan, it is estimated that 100 million dosages of zinc sulphate are required for 14 days treatment of under-five diarrhea patients. ZAFA and FEROZSONS, geographically located in Northern and Southern regions of the country, can jointly meet this requirement in 36 days. Approximately 42.4 million sachets of 20.5 g/l or 21.2 million sachets of 10.2 g/l of low osmolarity ORS will be needed to meet the requirement according to the burden of disease. Two companies, ATCO and FEROZSONS, having production capacity to Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 192 manufacture 120,000 sachets per day, can meet this requirement in less than 27 weeks. To fulfil the need of diarrhea commodities at a tertiary care facility, there may be something to learn from a unique supply model practiced at The Children Hospital and The Institute of Child health Lahore. Conclusion & recommendation: Advocacy campaigns should be planned to enhance demand for commodities in collaboration with UN agencies and pharmaceuticals companies, seeking support through their Corporate Social Responsibility mechanism. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 193 References Amin, H., Yasin, H., Danish, S. H., Ahmad, F., Rasheed, S., Zehra, N., & Ara, G. (2015). Appraisal of Knowledge, Attitude and Practices of Trained Doctors Regarding IMNCI. Pakistan Journal of Medicine and Dentistry, 4(01), 47. Arregoces, L., Daly, F., Pitt, C., Hsu, J., Martinez-Alvarez, M., Greco, G., ... & Borghi, J. (2015). Countdown to 2015: changes in official development assistance to reproductive, maternal, newborn, and child health, and assessment of progress between 2003 and 2012. The Lancet Global Health, 3(7), e410-e421. Becerra-Posada, F. (2015). Health in all policies: a strategy to support the Sustainable Development Goals. The