in 10 high-burden countries (Taylor, Schumacher & Davis, 2016). UNICEF and WHO tossed the Integrated Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD), suggesting a consistent methodology to address mortality rate due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea. GAPPD provides an opportunity for the global community to address these leading causes of child deaths in an integrated and coordinated fashion. By understanding the landscape of global child health initiatives and how they support and relate to the GAPPD, global donors and policymakers, alongside advocates and national decision-makers, can maximize their investments and help ensure every child has the opportunity to secure a prosperous future (WHO/UNICEF, 2013). 2.2 Pneumonia and Diarrhea Pakistan Context Among all the ailments, Diarrhea and Pneumonia are the prime causes of child mortality in Pakistan. Each year, approximately 91,000 deaths are attributed to Pneumonia and another 53,300 lose their lives because of Diarrhea (UNICEF, 2019). Two-thirds of the child mortality due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea occurs in countries, mostly within in Asia, with Pakistan ranking third highest amongst them (PSLM, 2014-15). The policies working in Pakistan for child survival enhancement are; the National Health Vision 2016-2025, National and Provincial essential medicine lists, Integrated management system of Newborn and Childhood Illness, Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea, Child survival groups, current environment for updating commodities, Pakistan’s approach to Total Sanitation (PATS). 2.2.1 Care Seeking and Referral Low care seeking behavior for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia has been observed in Pakistan. Disparities in care seeking behavior exist within different regions of Pakistan, such as in case of diarrhea, more than 75 percent and about 74 percent under-5 children pursue care from a facility or healthcare provider in provinces of Punjab and Sindh respectively, however, trends declined in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (59.7 percent) and Baluchistan (63.1) (PDHS, 2018). Similar patterns have been noticed in Punjab and Sindh provinces for treatment of pneumonia amongst children under 5 years, who sought advice with 86.1 percent and 85.4 percent respectively. Nonetheless, improvement was seen for pneumonia treatment in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (84.3%) and Baluchistan (62.2%) (PDHS, 2018). Use of Zinc supplements along with Low Osmolality ORS help reduce Diarrhea severity and duration (UNICEF National Nutrition Survey, 2018). Cost effective alternatives such as Amoxicillin Midterm Evaluation Report 20 Dispersible tablets, Pulse Oximeter, ARI timers and Oxygen therapy can help diagnoses, manage, treat and prevent childhood Pneumonia (UNICEF, 2018). Gender disadvantage has pervasive effects across the lifetime,