mouth of another. This is known as faecal-oral transmission. There may be diﬀerences, however, in the number of organisms needed to cause clinical illness, or in the route the pathogen takes while travelling between individuals (for example, from the stool to food or water, which is then ingested). Diarrhoea is a common manifestation of HIV infection in both adults and children. In adults, it is usually the consequence of a deteriorating immune system late in the HIV disease cycle. In children with HIV, it is often the result of frequently aggressive common childhood infections caused by pathogens such as Campylobacter, E. coli, Salmonella, Shigella or rotavirus.10 When diarrhoea persists for more than two weeks in children, it may be an indicator of stage 3 HIV infection, according to WHO, and requires further evaluation and antiretroviral treatment.11 Persistent diarrhoea occurs with increased frequency in HIV-infected children, and is associated with an 11-fold increase in mortality compared to uninfected children.12 Causes of persistent diarrhoea in HIV-positive children include HIV-related malabsorption, gut manifestation of tuberculosis, gut infections and infestations of pathogens such as Cryptosporidium parvum, Cyclospora cayetanensis, Isospora belli, Microsporidia and cytomegalovirus. Management of diarrhoea in children with HIV is the same as in children without the virus, as outlined in this report.13 Sources: Partners in Health, The PIH Guide to the Community-Based Treatment of HIV in Resource-Poor Settings (Revised Second Edition), Partners in Health, Boston, 2008; World Health Organization, Antiretroviral Therapy of HIV Infection in Infants and Children: Towards universal access. Recommendations for a public health approach, WHO, Geneva, 2006; Tindyebwa, D., et al., ‘Common Clinical Conditions Associated with HIV’, in: Handbook on Paediatric AIDS in Africa, 2004; Lule, J.R., et al., ‘Effect of Home-Based Water Chlorination and Safe Storage on Diarrhea Among Persons with Human Immunodeﬁciency Virus in Uganda’, American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, vol. 73, no. 5, 2005, pp. 926-933. BOX 2 The links between diarrhoea and HIV Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 10 What are the main forms of acute childhood diarrhoea? There are three main forms of acute childhood diarrhoea, all of which are potentially life-threatening and require diﬀerent treatment courses: ■ Acute watery diarrhoea includes cholera and is associated with signiﬁcant ﬂuid loss and rapid dehydration in an infected individual. It usually lasts for several hours or days. The pathogens that generally cause acute watery diarrhoea include V. cholerae