Indicators Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs 1 Do written standard treatment guidelines exist for conditions that use commodities in the supply chain being assessed? 1 N N N N N N N N N y N N N N N y N N N N The required standard treatment guidelines by the vertical program (NP in Sindh and IRMNCH & NP in Punjab) were with limited scope to perform their duties. If no, skip to question 4. 2 List the commodities being assessed in this supply chain that are required to comply with the standard treatment guidelines. Amoxicillin suspension, ORS (Low osmolality), Zinc Syrup or Zinc dispersible tablets 3 Are standard treatment guidelines distributed to all the service delivery points? 1 N N N N N N N N N Y N N N N N Y N N N N The vertical program training manuals, is distributed to all the services providers. At the development of the new edition of the training manual the required trainings is planned and hardcopies are distributed to all LHSs and LHWs. 4 Are there written procedures 1 Y Y Y N N N N N N na N N N N N na N N N N SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT 127 Indicators Marks Sindh Punjab Baluchistan KP FATA HANDS I H S PPHI Kashmore Sukkur TM Khan Tharparkar KHI Malir Shaheed Benazirabad National Program DHQ Muzaffarghar Bahawalnagar pakpattan Rajanpur IRMNCH & NP DHQs for monitoring and supervising prescribing practices (e.g., monitoring number of products/drugs prescribed/dispensed per prescription)? WHO recommendations for the monitoring of prescribed practices are to avoid poly pharmacy and to promote the rational utilization of the medicines. The information provided by the PPP, was also to monitor the prescribed practices of the physicians. Some surveys are conducted by WHO / NGOs on to gather the basic knowledge of the prescribing behaviors of physicians. It is observed that in public health facilities, under the supervision of health department, are currently not monitoring according to whose recommendations. The scope of work of LHW is limited and with medicines (ORS & Zinc supplementation for diarrhea and Amoxicillin suspension for mild pneumonia. It could be used as an initial dose then the patient could referred to