Diseases of Childhood project (SC4CCM) decided to test the use of mobile technology for improving communication between the HSAs and their resupply point. cStock is a rapid SMS, open-source, web-based system that was custom designed by SC4CCM for monitoring and managing community-level essential medicines and commodities for child health, family planning and HIV testing. The system allows HSAs to transmit their stock information to the health centre via text message and allows community-level data, previously unavailable, to be visible to decision-makers at all levels of the system. User feedback has been positive, and best practices are being generated. The programme is being rolled out in more districts, and similar initiatives are in operation in Ethiopia and Rwanda. A baseline assessment was done in 2010 and the project intends to measure its impact on the availability of products. Source: Adapted from JSI. cStock: Creating an SMS system to improve supply of child health medicines for CCM in Malawi. (flyer, undated); JSI. Description of the SC4CCM Project in Malawi. (flyer, 2011). Box 12. Skymeds, Bihar In 2011, the World Health Partners (WHP) launched a “Skymeds” network of rural private providers across 25 districts in Bihar, under the joint venture initiative Ananya and funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Since inception of the programme, access to rapid, affordable, high-quality treatments close to home for babies has become a reality for many. These gains in access and quality of care have been made possible by engaging rural private providers, to whom 70-80% of rural people take their children first, often for life-threatening pneumonia or diarrhoea, and encouraging the adoption of good practices for detection and management of childhood illness. Moreover, using telemedicine, rural private providers are linked to qualified doctors, ultimately increasing capacity for quality care. Programme impact is reinforced by a strong supply chain of essential medicines, ensuring the availability and affordability of medicines for the treatment of pneumonia and diarrhoea, including ORS, zinc and amoxicillin. In order to further strengthen the combat against childhood pneumonia in Bihar, a number of innovations are being explored, many of which will aid in the diagnosis and treatment of hypoxia (low blood oxygen), which often complicates pneumonia. Example innovations that are being explored include respiratory rate timers built onto an Android platform that will assist rural providers in the detection of fast breathing as a key symptom of pneumonia; low-cost pulse oximeters that can