annex 44 Acknowledgements This report was prepared at UNICEF Headquarters by Emily White Johansson and Tessa Wardlaw in close collaboration with Nancy Binkin, Clarissa Brocklehurst, Therese Dooley, Peter Salama and Mark Young. Overall guidance, advice and important inputs were provided by Nicholas Alipui, Fred Arnold, Al Bartlett, Jamie Bartram, Robert Black, Francisco Blanco, John Borrazzo, Robert Bos, Neal Brandes, Jennifer Bryce, Sandy Cairncross, Misun Choi, Mickey Chopra, Paula Claycomb, Trevor Croft, Oliver Cumming, Ngagne Diakhate, Olivier Fontaine, Shanelle Hall, Matthew Hodge, Eckhard Kleinau, Jimmy Kolker, Chewe Luo, Nyein Nyein Lwin, Elizabeth Mason, Eric Mintz, Richard Morgan, Jon Rohde, Werner Schultink, Peter Van Maanen, Christa Fischer Walker and Maniza Zaman. Emerson, Wajdowicz Studios provided overall art direction, photo editing and design. Lois Jensen edited the report. IV Foreword The Millennium Development Goals call for a reduction of child mortality by two thirds between 1990 and 2015. As the deadline approaches, the reality is that although progress is being made, much more remains to be done. Nearly nine million children under ﬁve years of age die each year. Diarrhoea is second only to pneumonia as the cause of these deaths. Why is diarrhoea, an easily preventable and treatable disease, one that in the developed world is considered little more than an inconvenience, causing an estimated 1.5 million under-ﬁve deaths every year? Reducing these deaths depends largely on delivering life-saving treatment of low-osmolarity oral rehydration salts (ORS) and zinc tablets to all children in need. However, progress will also require focusing on prevention, whether through the new rotavirus vaccine or by addressing the factors that lead to children developing the disease in the ﬁrst place. Diarrhoea is more prevalent in the developing world due, in large part, to the lack of safe drinking water, sanitation and hygiene, as well as poorer overall health and nutritional status. According to the latest available ﬁgures, an estimated 2.5 billion people lack improved sanitation facilities, and nearly one billion people do not have access to safe drinking water. These unsanitary environments allow diarrhoea-causing pathogens to spread more easily. Improving unsanitary environments alone, however, will not be enough as long as children continue to remain susceptible to the disease and are not eﬀectively treated once it begins. Evidence has shown that children with poor health and nutritional status are more vulnerable to serious infections like acute diarrhoea and suﬀer multiple episodes every year. At the same time, acute