sustainable after regularization of LHWs and provincialization of the programme? • Probe about financial sustainability of the programme in relation to further expansion and improvement of existing quality of services 3. What is the status/coverage of LHWs and LHSs in your province? • Is required number of LHWs present to cover your entire province? If not, what are the reasons for non-availability of LHWs? • Is the required number of LHSs available to supervise the LHWs? • In your opinion, how availability of LHSs and LHWs can be improved in your province? 4. What do you think about the competence of LHSs and LHWs to manage diarrhea and pneumonia in children at household level and for referral of complicated cases? • What is routine mechanism for in-service training and capacity building of LHSs and LHWs in your province? • Is there any specific training for prevention and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea, like IMCI or any other training? • If you don’t have in built mechanism of in-service training in your province, what else have you done for this purpose? 5. What is the current status of availability of commodities and equipment for child health services, particularly for diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • Are sufficient amount of antipyretics, antibiotics (particularly Amoxicillin), L-ORS and Zinc are provided to the LHSs and LHWs? • In what formulation are these commodities usually provided? Probe for DT? • What are the common reasons for stock-outs of these commodities? • Are any specific equipment, like ARI timers/pulse oximeter, provided to the LHWs for better managing the cases of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • In your opinion, how can the uninterrupted supply of these commodities be ensured for LHSs and LHWs? 6. Can you put some light on LHW-MIS? • What do you think about the sufficiency of LHW-MIS tools for recording and reporting regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? • Do these reports provide adequate cover and indicate the shortage of commodities? • Have you made any decisions regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea on the basis of the reports generated at provincial level? Kindly give some examples. • How can the recording and reporting of LHSs and LHWs’ services be improved? Midterm Evaluation Report 92 7. What are your in built mechanisms for monitoring and supervision of LHWSs and LHWs? • What is the current supervision policy? At which level responsibility of