for trainings on their use and their maintenance. Finding: The project has contributed in building ownership of provincial governments of its interventions. The project has certainly made the DOH at provincial levels more conscious and involved in the management of these childhood illnesses. However, there is still room for further strengthening this ownership by the government. Members of CSG and TWG were extremely supportive and enthusiastic about improving Pneumonia and Diarrhea services, yet none seemed to take responsibility of the actions of these groups. The technical support provided by these groups was acknowledged and the need for “institutionalizing” these groups was mentioned by various stakeholders quite frequently. A policy maker while appreciating the role of UNICEF in this project expressed his concern for the project’s sustainability after UNICEF withdraws, EQ: To what extent the programme has been able to contribute to ownership and leadership of the provincial/ area DOHs? Midterm Evaluation Report 55 “There should be a detailed exit strategy planned out before UNICEF withdraws sustaining this massive project could be a big challenge for the government.” Nonetheless, all policy level participants highlighted the government’s support and involvement in this project from decision-making and advocacy to making significant changes at the policy level. Finding: Ownership of the government is evident through inclusion of recommended commodities in MSDP, EML and procurement lists. The government revised and updated the child survival related policies and strategies in accordance with GAPDD and WHO recommendations. Majority of the policy level respondents were cognizant of these changes including the updating of IMNCI guidelines, which they agreed was a judicious step. Majority agreed that IMNCI trainings were taking place and some were of the opinion that the monitoring mechanism of these trainings should be strengthened for quality assurance purposes. The participants who chose to share specific insights about the updating of policies shared that in Punjab, DTs and Lo ORS have been included in provincial EML, procurement lists, and MSDP whereas in Sindh EML and MSDP have been updated, while DTs still need to be added in the procurement lists. This reflects the commitment of the federal and provincial governments in managing these childhood illnesses. Finding: Childhood P&D has been brought into limelight through the project interventions at policy and planning level. The project interventions have definitely put the much-needed focus on these childhood illnesses. Apart from changes in EML, MSDP and procurement lists, the structure of