The package should be accompanied by clear, targeted and integrated behaviour and social change communication strategies to improve uptake by families and communities. Action needed now to reduce child deaths from diarrhoea ■ Mobilize and allocate resources for diarrhoea control. Diarrhoea remains a leading killer of children, though the tools needed to address it are available and aﬀordable. New resources for child survival must include funding for diarrhoea prevention and treatment. And global initiatives must keep the management of diarrhoea high on the list of priorities for public health resource A 7-point plan for comprehensive diarrhoea control 4 33 diarrhoea are adopted and promoted, using effective delivery strategies. One way of facilitating the delivery of low-osmolarity ORS and zinc is by combining these life-saving remedies in a single treatment kit. ■ Reach every child with eﬀective interventions. This will require a ﬂexible approach that takes into account the special circumstances of each country; often it will require a mix of public and private sector responses. Community-based approaches are needed to ensure high coverage of health, nutrition and water and sanitation interventions, rather than relying solely on the public sector for these services. Emergency and conﬂict situations may require immediate intervention by governments and international aid organizations, especially to prevent cholera outbreaks. ■ Accelerate the provision of basic water and sanitation services. This can best be accomplished through partnerships between the health sector and other agencies responsible for water and sanitation, and the use of community-based approaches. Eliminating open defecation must be a priority, along with promoting the construction of basic sanitation facilities by households and providing safe water facilities close to people’s homes that can be operated and maintained by the community. ■ Use innovative strategies to increase the adoption of proven measures against diarrhoea. All available options should be exploited to reach every household with a package of high-impact interventions against diarrhoea (Box 11), including the testing of new approaches to achieve high and equitable coverage. This could include, for example, the development of ﬂavoured ORS formulas or systems for treating and safely storing household water. Other types of innovations include alternative delivery strategies, such as Child Health Days, to reach a high proportion of the target group. Consumer research to improve packaging, marketing and product positioning will be essential for greater acceptance of ORS, soap and household water treatment. ■ Change behaviours through community involvement, education and health-promotion