commodities have already been made part of the revised EML. However, the managers of Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 56 the Punjab stated that these commodities are not part of the provincial EML in Punjab. This is because stakeholders need to be convinced about the effectiveness of the updated commodities especially, the benefits of the dispersible tablets. A provincial manager in the Punjab government noted: “We will have to test the acceptability of these tablets in the community.” A senior official in the Punjab government clearly stated that “The new commodities would be added in the essential medicine lists after recommendation from the concerned program (IRMNCH). Once the department of health and the relevant vertical program is convinced that the updated commodities have long term benefits, then the revision of EML and the procurement lists won’t be a problem.” On the other hand, the Program Director of Policy and Strategic Planning Unit (PSPU) Punjab revealed that the co-packaging of Zinc with the ORS has already been successfully tested in the District Gujrat of Punjab. healthcare providers, including MOs, WMOs, GPs, nurses and LHVs were trained on the use of this commodity. Transition of Commodities Provincial managers in Sindh revealed that the UNICEF has ensured provision of supply of commodities for up to 2 years (till 2019) and has probably already arranged the required stock from its own resource. Furthermore, they stressed the need of the continuous supply from the regular budgeting procedures of the health department. The managers were not aware of any market availability of these commodities. It was informed that MCHIP has made some significant progress relevant to pneumonia and Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 57 diarrhea. It was told that MCHIP has already trained people on the case management of pneumonia and diarrhea. Furthermore, it was shared that MCHIP has already provided ARI timers and pulse oximeters to the selected districts in Sindh. Policy for Health Information Systems Managers pointed out that pneumonia is not listed as a separate disease in DHIS. Similarly it was told that the Diarrhea is listed with the Dysentery. Managers supported the idea of including the pneumonia and diarrhea separately in the health information systems of public health facilities after a broad consultation with all the stakeholders. Few managers questioned the practicality of the inclusion of pneumonia and diarrhea in DHIS at the BHU level. One manager expressed his reservation, “These diseases