e.g. Child Survival Groups, Technical Working Group 9. Are the community IMNCI training manuals revised? Who was responsible for their revision? Has UNICEF provided technical assistance for the revision? a. Have these been endorsed by TWG, Child Survival and the Government through consensus? b. Was there any orientation carried out to endorse the revised community IMNCI Training Modules? 10. Have the treatment protocols for pneumonia and diarrhea updated according to new recommendations (EML, IMNCI, MSDP and Procurement lists etc.)? a. Are job-aids, reporting tools and training material for healthcare providers revised accordingly? b. What plans are there for refresher training of health workers (facility and community) that will be an opportunity to introduce new treatment protocols? c. Has UNICEF facilitated the Government in the process? 11. What are the structural nonstructural factors that affect policy change, its translation and subsequent implementation with reference to pneumonia and diarrhea commodities? 12. Have the policy changes been implemented in consideration of Gender and HRB approaches? Any example 13. How will Government ensure the sustainability of these policy changes? 14. How can the policy translation be achieved effectively? 15. Who are potential key stakeholders that can institute a policy change? 16. What are some of the barriers that are hindering the policy level processes? 17. What are some of the facilitators that act as a catalyst for the desired change? Any suggestions for improvement in UNICEF P&D Project Guide for LHW Coordinator Before starting interview, remember to: Midterm Evaluation Report 91 ⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit ⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of study objectives ⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 1. First I’d like to ask you about the role of LHWs and LHSs in reducing morbidity and mortality associated with Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children. • What are the provincial policies and guidelines for LHW Programme to deliver child health services? • In your opinion, how adequate are these policies/guidelines to ensure the availability of services, particularly for the management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 2. To what extent the programme is sustainable after regularization of LHWs and provincialization of the programme? • Probe about financial sustainability of the programme in relation to further expansion and improvement of existing quality of services 3. What is the status/coverage of LHWs and LHSs in your province? • Is required number of LHWs present to