adequately addressed when developing sustainability and rollout strategies. Source: Adapted from Tanzania: Accredited Drug Dispensing Outlets— Duka la Dawa Muhimu on the Management Sciences for Health, Rational Pharmaceutical Management Plus, website http://www.msh.org/projects/ rpmplus/WhereWeWork/Africa/ADDOs.cfm, accessed 5 September 2012. Box 17. Using the informal private sector to improve quality of care with zinc and ORS – the case of the Point-of-Use Water Disinfection and Zinc Treatment (POUZN) Project, Uttar Pradesh, India Introduction of zinc and ORS through the public health sector may not reach the vulnerable populations that need them the most since a classic market introduction of zinc would only trickle down to private providers at a very slow pace. The POUZN project in India worked with commercial partners to produce and sell zinc. However, there was no direct contact with informal practitioners or retail outlets in remote areas. To bridge this gap, the POUZN project trained existing indigenous medical providers in Uttar Pradesh to use zinc and ORS. These unlicensed providers normally treat almost 63% of children less than 3 years of age who are suffering from diarrhoea. Through local NGOs, approximately 2000 rural medical practitioners (RMPs) and 500 drug sellers were identified to provide access to zinc and ORS in rural areas. The project designed communication tools for both the retailers and their clients, including a short DVD designed to raise awareness and convey consistent and correct messages about zinc. Retailers were given DVD players, as well as simple monitoring forms in order to track prescription practices and client satisfaction. Following a review, the project streamlined the strategy and expanded the programme. About 20 000 RMPs and 5000 drug sellers served a catchment area of around 13 million people. High rates of increase in use of a recommended point-of-use water treatment were observed. The NGO representatives primed the market in their areas and, equally important, compiled information about the top 25% or so prescribers. POUZN shared this information with companies selling zinc in Uttar Pradesh—essentially identifying their prime customers. Creating such a bridge encourages companies to commit to this new market as it gives them an economic incentive to become more active in underserved areas. It also allows rural providers to learn about and have access not only to zinc, but also to other drugs and health products. It ultimately permits removal of subsidies once the rural market has been primed. Source: Adapted from USAID. Introducing improved treatment of