in routine for the treatment of pneumonia…I have heard of antibiotics in DTs form. Syrup is a better option. Syrup is easily taken. DTs are not easy in use and have a bitter taste. But DTs are more effective. Such DTs are not available in the market. I don’t have any idea about people's perception about DTs, mainly because DTs are not available at our facility.” Availability & Acceptability of New Medicines Majority of facility in-charges believed that Zinc DTs were unavailable in the market. They also associated the unavailability of DTs to lack of awareness of such form of medicine. A facility in-charge from Punjab said, “… I have never heard about Zinc DTs. The community's perception can only be known if DTs are available in the market and are prescribed by doctors.” Among the few exceptions who were aware of Zinc DTs stated, “… yes, I have heard of Zinc DTs. Zinc DTs are not provided at our facility, so I don’t have any idea about its advantage over syrup or vice versa.” DTs garnered varying views from the facility in-charges on its acceptability in the community. A few, who didn’t seem to be entirely sure about DT medication, answered saying it might generate a positive response from the community. Similarly, many assumed that they would not be able to win over community support due to various factors. However, some maintained that if doctors prescribed them regularly, they might Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 84 become popular in the community. A facility in-charge from Sindh expounded on the acceptability of Zinc DT, “… DTs are not available in this area/health facility. I don’t know what will be the reaction of the community about DTs. It is easy to introduce provided the taste of DTs is better and more effective than the syrup.” Practicality Practicality of DTs brought various aspects of its usage under question by the facility in-charges. The factors that were the cause of their concern included, • Quantity/dosage • Solubility in water • Oral intake/ ease in swallowing • Taste • Smell A facility in-charge from Sindh discussed the viability of DTs elaborately, “I don’t think that DTs are more effective or suitable than the syrups. Every customer has his/her own perception about DT, but according to my knowledge, DTs are tasteless, do not dissolve properly in water and patients can’t remember their dosage. DTs are