5 by 65% by 2015 compared with 2000 levels • Reduce the incidence of severe pneumonia by 25% in children under age 5 by 2015 compared with 2000 levels Three targets are to be reached by the end of 2015: • 90% coverage of each relevant vaccine (with 80% coverage in every district) • 90% access to appropriate pneumonia case management • 90% coverage of exclusive breastfeeding during the first six months of life Technical consensus statement In the context of child survival strategies, countries should address pneumonia control. The key strategies for treating, preventing and protecting from pneumonia are: • Case management at all levels • Vaccination • Prevention and management of HIV infection • Improvement of nutrition and reduction of low birthweight • Control of indoor air pollution Five interventions could more than halve pneumonia mortality and morbidity: • Adopting effective case management at the community and health facility levels. Countries with a high under-five mortality rate should adopt plans to expand adequate case management of pneumonia at the hospital, health facility and community levels to achieve 90% coverage within a predetermined timeframe • Achieving Global Immunization Vision and Strategy targets for vaccines against measles and pertussis. Countries that have not yet done so, especially high-mortality countries, should introduce PCV and Hib vaccine into their national immunization programmes • Promoting exclusive breastfeeding and zinc supplementation. These strategies reduce rates of low birthweight and undernutrition, which helps prevent pneumonia • Reducing indoor air pollution. New technologies can reduce indoor air pollution, which may prevent pneumonia, and additional research is needed to demonstrate the health benefits of these interventions • Preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV, improving management of HIV infection and increasing use of P. jiroveci pneumonia prophylaxis. These interventions are important in countries with HIV prevalence Other preventive strategies, such as encouraging handwashing, should also be promoted. Pneumonia is a common and serious consequence of pandemic influenza. Preparedness for pandemic influenza should include prevention and control of pneumonia and adds urgency to community case management. 1.2. Diarrhoea: Why Children Are Dying and What Can Be Done This report lays out a seven-point action plan for comprehensive diarrhoea control. Treatment The treatment package focuses on two main elements: • Fluid replacement to prevent dehydration • Zinc treatment Oral rehydration therapy is the cornerstone of fluid replacement. New elements of this approach include low-osmolarity ORS, which is more effective at replacing