from 11 days to six day abridge course with an enhanced focus on management of pneumonia and diarrhea.” Sindh government has trained six batches on in-service IMNCI guidelines with support from UNICEF and WHO and pre-service IMNCI guidelines are being made a part of curriculum and examination in medical universities. The reduced cost associated with trainings of shorter duration makes it cost effective and provides an opportunity to train more health workers in the health facilities. 4.1.3 Updating Essential Medicines and Procurement Lists The project advocated extensively with federal and provincial governments for the revision of Essential Medicines and Procurement Lists to include the updated commodities for better management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea for both intervention provinces. The project supported and facilitated widespread consultations (coordination committees, steering committees and programme management units) at national and provincial levels comprising of the relevant policy makers and partners to review the existing lists and update them with the inclusion of revised commodities for management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Evidence-based policy briefs were prepared by the project on benefits of Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, co-packaged ORS and Zinc, Pulse Oximeters, ARI timer and oxygen in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea, which were disseminated during the consultative meetings. Resultantly, updated lists included Amoxicillin DT, Lo-ORS, Zinc DT, ARI Timers, Pulse Oximeters and Oxygen for appropriate levels of service delivery. Now, the project is facilitating the operationalization of these lists for regular A federal manager while discussing the revision of IMNCI explained, “This is a difficult task, which was achieved through coordinated efforts by all the partners, including WHO and UNICEF.” “UNICEF Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project has popularised the DTs, now we all are aware of the benefits of switching to their use.” Member of TWG/CSG Midterm Evaluation Report 39 procurement by provincial procurement committees led by Health Secretary. The project further advocated for inclusion of the revised commodities in essential package of health services (EPHS) in Sindh, Minimum Service Delivery Package (MSDP) in Punjab, Minimum Service Delivery Standards (MSDS) and its endorsement from relevant CSG/TWG. Figure 5: Revision of IMNCI Guidelines 4.1.4 Augmentation of Information Systems The project supported the revision and enhancement of DHIS tools with inclusion of new indicators as well as the GAPPD recommendations, like updated commodities for management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and indicators on safe drinking water, exclusive breast feeding and new vaccines. Furthermore, MIS of LHWs were