of the medicines batch and expiry wise. It also facilitates the hospitals for transfer of stock from one hospital to another. Health system of Pakistan provides care to children suffered from diarrhea and pneumonia also through Lady Health workers and Lady Health supervisors (LHS) programs. Even in presence of these services diarrhea and pneumonia causes 27% of all deaths in children under five in Pakistan. In project “Nigraan” a qualitative study has been conducted to explore the role of LHW’s and LHS’s motivation level in District Badin of Sind province of Pakistan and also to assessed the knowledge and skills regarding iCCM of diarrhea and pneumonia. It has been observed that there was lack of knowledge of diarrhea and pneumonia case management in which lack of knowledge to prepare the ORS was also reported. LHW has also reported that lack of availability of essential medicines and commodities for diarrhea and pneumonia case management is the major reason of their demotivation. They also mentioned that availability of essential medicines will improve their credibility in the community. Medicines management required effective inventory management reporting for the replenishment of the medicines. Feedback provided by the LHWs showed that they were not comfortable with written reports which may be cause hindrance in stock reporting. [10] According to Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) 2014 Sindh described that in diarrhea management many deaths can be prevented by use of ORS or recommended home fluid (RHF) and Zinc Supplementation reduces the reoccurrence of episodes. It has been reported that the overall period-prevalence of diarrhea in children under five years of age is 28.4% while the highest period-prevalence is seen among the children age 12 to 23 months which grossly correspond to weaning period. The care seeking behavior for diarrhea was more common for younger as compare to older children. 72.8% of children age 0-11 months received the treatment from HF compared with 62.6% of children age 48-59 months. Survey report stated that Children under five who received ORS were 54.5% while who received both ORS or RHF and Zinc were 11.6%. In Sindh 14% of children suffered from diarrhea do not received any treatment of diarrhea (MICS 2014, Sindh). Punjab Public Health Sector Strategy (PPHSS) 2012-2020 stated that the public health facilities of Punjab have issues in supply chain, lack of quantification skills, procurement and budget issues, lack of storage spaces and delay supplies which results in