at national level, e.g. Child Survival Groups, Technical Working Group? 8.Are the community IMNCI training manuals revised? Who was responsible for their revision? Has UNICEF provided technical assistance for the revision? Midterm Evaluation Report 98 c. Have these been endorsed by Technical Working Group, Child Survival Group or/and the Government through consensus? d. Was there any orientation carried out to endorse the revised community IMNCI Training Modules? 9 Have the treatment protocols for pneumonia and diarrhea updated according to new recommendations (EML, IMNCI, MSDP and Procurement lists etc.)? d. Are job-aids, reporting tools and training material for healthcare providers revised accordingly? e. What plans are there for refresher training of health workers (facility and community) that will be an opportunity to introduce new treatment protocols? f. Has UNICEF facilitated the Government in the process? 10. What are the structural and non-structural factors that affect policy change, its translation and subsequent implementation with reference to pneumonia and diarrhea commodities? 11. How can the policy translation be achieved effectively? 12.What are some of the barriers that are hindering the policy level processes? 13. What are some of the facilitators that act as a catalyst for the desired change? 14. Any suggestions for improvement in UNICEF P&D Project? PPA Member Before starting interview, remember to: ⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit ⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of evaluation objectives ⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview During the initial discussion to explain the evaluation, the interviewer and participant should have had the opportunity to introduce themselves and to make small talk to break the ice. You can begin by saying these words to the group of participants: ‘As you know Pneumonia and Diarrhea are common causes of deaths among children under age 5. We are conducting a study to learn about of services being provided to treat and manage these diseases among children and would like to know your views in this regards. We will start when you are ready, will listen to your view points and ask few questions to clarify some of the things you would talk about.’ May we begin? The guideline contains multiple questions and each question is followed by a set of probes. Please let participants initiate the discussion and use probes only when certain concerns are not addressed by the group Midterm Evaluation Report 99 Q1 a)