and burden of disease estimates, identifying priority interventions, understanding the resources available and where they can be best used, and taking advantage of new tools. For example, OneHealth and Marginal Budgeting for Bottlenecks are analytical tools for evidence-based health policy, planning, costing and budgeting at country level. These tools help simulate the potential impact on healthrelated coverage and outcomes, as well as cost and budget implications of alternative health service delivery strategies using different approaches (community/ family-based, population / outreach-based, or clinic-based). Moving to sustainability There are many examples of investments in health that are ended prematurely in response to the cessation of external funding or the prioritization of new initiatives. In recent years, more emphasis has been put on sustaining improvements, and there is a growing body of work to help planners and managers know what to do to sustain evidence-based interventions and programmes in countries. Implementation of interventions for pneumonia and diarrhoea should aim to sustain any gains made. 9 . Monitoring and evaluation Tracking progress on efforts to control pneumonia and diarrhoea needs dedicated attention. Countries will have primary responsibility for ensuring that data are available and used for action, and for measuring progress. The indicators for GAPPD targets (Table 3) have been selected because they are also being used to monitor progress towards MDG 4 in the Countdown to 2015 and the United Nations CoIA. The other indicators cover key areas (such as water, sanitation and energy) not included in those initiatives. They are usually captured by routine health information systems and/or DHS and MICS, or by other established processes. Thus the data to measure them is likely to be readily available, even after 2015. Countries will need to establish mechanisms to ensure that data collected by community health and similar workers is incorporated into reporting systems. In some cases, more frequent sampling of high-risk communities than the DHS and MICS permit will be required. Globally, United Nations agencies and other partners will continue to support countries and compile regional and global information. For immunization coverage, WHO32 UNICEF estimates based on government reports are available at the national level. Data measuring progress towards GAPPD goals will be measured through surveillance efforts, existing processes such as the Child Health Epidemiology Research Group, and through improved burden of disease impact models. The iERG of the United Nations CoIA will be involved as appropriate, as will as the World