the Policy and Strategic Planning Unit (PSPU) and the Chief Minister of Punjab’s Special Monitoring Unit (CM-SMU). PSPU was found to have a played major role in monitoring related processes of government. More importantly, it was found to be responsible for ensuring commodities availability through monitoring in public health sector facilities. CM-SMU is tasked with accountability related to prioritized areas of intervention including health, education, law and order, livestock, clean drinking water and municipal waste management. The district health managers are made accountable on periodic basis on these prioritized areas before the Chief Minister. This monitoring system has arguably created a huge sense of accountability within the province. Moreover, it was an overwhelming suggestion by the technical experts and health managers that there should be a mechanism in place that continually conducts research on the different facets of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. They stressed that it is important to dig deep into the epidemiology of Pneumonia and Diarrhea to create local evidence for action both at clinical and the management level. 41 4.1.9 Baluchistan: Perspective of the Province Interviews and discussions with personnel from the health department in Quetta revealed that their healthcare system is relatively less developed than those in other provinces. According to the respondents, political commitment and willingness towards refining the health system exists, however, the capacity and ability to implement improvements is limited. Public sector coverage is less than 50% in the province, while FPAP and PPA play an active role in providing support for the private sector. Political instability has been a major impediment in getting external support in the province. Thus, there is also a lack of donor and development partners activities in the province. There isn’t any robust monitoring mechanism for health related interventions and hence no platform to oversee the healthcare activities. Nonetheless, it is believed that sufficient focus on child survival and child survival strategy does exist. Pneumonia and Diarrhea are one of the most prevalent diseases among children in the province and it is assumed that there is enough emphasis on these diseases. In the past, there has been a considerable focus on these diseases, which however dwindled as the directorate of communicable disease control (CDC) gradually became defunct. Trainings for healthcare providers related to child survival are also provided on continuous basis along with trainings on IMNCI guidelines. However, treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea is not an integral part of