on delivery strategies, on overcoming barriers to interventions and on better ways for implementation. However, the need for such research is no reason to delay the implementation of effective interventions now. Research efforts to control pneumonia and diarrhoea in children must include building research capacity in the countries most affected. 12 . Opportunities 2013 –2025 The MDGs have built considerable momentum and strengthened political commitment to child survival and development. The significant reduction in under-five mortality that has been achieved since 1990 has saved millions of young lives over the past two decades. Much of this progress has been achieved by the adoption of basic health interventions in the context of general development, economic improvement, increased female education and improved technology. However, 2015 is almost here, and much work remains to be done through to at least 2025. The GAPPD provides a way to enhance progress toward the prevention and control of the top child killers during the countdown to 2015 and beyond. This opportunity to advocate for and provide increased investment in pneumonia and diarrhoea should not be missed. Considering the size of the global burden of childhood pneumonia and diarrhoea, the resources required to provide proven interventions are relatively modest. A further opportunity is the general acknowledgement that the successful reduction of global health problems requires active involvement of affected communities, supported by effective international partnerships and collaborative efforts. Policies and actions are laying the groundwork for this communitybased approach. 13 . Conclusion The global MDG 4 target – reduction of child mortality by two thirds – is still out of reach for many of the poorest countries of the world. Although the MDG target for access to improved water has been met, hundreds of millions of people still lack access to safe and reliable drinking-water and 2.5 billion have no access to improved sanitation. Targets for improving the health of children beyond 2015 will not be achieved without urgent action on pneumonia and diarrhoea from national governments as well as supporting partners at the global level. Focused, coordinated and integrated international, national and sub-national action on pneumonia and diarrhoea control, as foreseen in the GAPPD, is needed now. In a changing world, programmes for diarrhoea and pneumonia must be flexible and able to understand risks and adapt to changes in context. This document calls on all concerned groups to demonstrate their commitment, allocate the required resources, and