Merlin, etc. Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 65 Monitoring of LHWs It was found out that the LHWs are being monitored at two levels. The district administration and district health administration perform monitoring and supervisory visits. Secondly, LHS is also supposed to visit 20-25 LHWs on monthly basis. 3 days are also specified for surprise visit of those LHWs whose recent performance has been marked as bad. LHS is supposed to check the stock outs at LHWs level. She also checks if there is any excessive stock of medicine or misuse of medicine and prepares documents for such purposes. Special visits are also arranged in case of any emergency or extraordinary situation. It was suggested that for better monitoring and supervision of LHWs, DC should be given powers of accountability of LHWs but it was suggested as well that this accountability should not necessarily include the right of termination of LHWs. However, managers expressed some key constraints in the effective monitoring process. Vertical programs especially the LHW program is facing serious obstacles in monitoring due to financial constraints. Barriers like lack of funds for repair and maintenance and POL severely affect the ability of the programs to conduct monitoring. Monitoring and Learning Technical experts and health managers uniformly stressed the need of a robust monitoring system for the effective implementation for any intervention. It was found that the facility and community based staff is supervised by the district health managers. Districts have autonomy to plan their own supervisory and monitoring visits, which are notified to primary level facilities and for community based workers. Similarly, DHQ hospitals are monitored on weekly basis; whereas THQ Hospitals, RHCs and BHUs are Landscape Analysis for Commodity Access 66 visited randomly. Managers stressed the need of an integrated monitoring system that involves the vertical programs as well. It was found that the Sindh with the support of USAID has built a system for monitoring. The District Health Planning and Management teams have been established for the planning and monitoring at the district level. Sindh has developed a monitoring framework that encompasses the monitoring processes of the health monitoring. It was found that the districts planned monitoring and supervisory visits at the district level. A monitoring and evaluation cell in the office of the Director General Health Services gathers all the data. A dedicated focal person is responsible for the monitoring of vertical programs and prioritized