is operationalized through the identification of specific policies and measures that will achieve air quality benefits alongside SLCP and GHG emission reductions. Pakistan’s NDC also identifies actions to increase coordination and alignment between climate change and air quality planning. For example, the NDC explicitly identifies the revision of the Pakistan Clean Air Program as a priority, and states that the Low Emissions Analysis Platform (LEAP) tool will be used to assess the multiple benefits of emission reductions, including benefits for human health through improved air quality. These measures include: a. 30% shift to electric passenger vehicles and 50% shift to electric two/three wheelers and buses by 2030. b. Euro-5 standard fuel in petroleum industry introduced and the aim is to steadily increase its market share. c. Switching to zig-zag brick kiln technology d. Continuation of reduction and elimination of Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) program, initiated in 2015. 2.1.6 National Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy, 2019 The National Electric Vehicle Policy was created to introduce electric and alternative fuel-based transportation to significantly reduce emissions, with transportation accounting for 43% of airborne emissions. 2.1.7 Alternative & Renewable Energy Policy, 2019 7 The of the Policy was to develop an efficient, sustainable, secure, affordable, competitive and environment friendly power system. Section 1.4 of the Policy promotes different types of projects such as solar, energy from waste, biomass, wind, etc. 2.1.8 Provincial Environment Protection Acts All the provinces have enacted the Provincial Environmental Protection Acts, which have provisions for dealing with air quality management. 8 3. The National Clean Air Policy (NCAP) The National Clean Air Policy (NCAP) aims to provide a framework for improving air quality and has been developed through inputs of stakeholders throughout the country. Stakeholder consultation sessions were conducted in all the provinces of Pakistan including Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) and Gilgit-Baltistan (G-B) with relevant government departments including environmental protection agencies, local government, and planning agencies, members of the civil society, experts from academia, and representatives of the private sector. The consultations focused on soliciting feedback on the policy actions and defining roles and responsibilities to improve air quality. The NCAP is a national document, and therefore focuses on actions at the national scale that can achieve improvements in air quality across Pakistan. However, the provinces of Pakistan have a crucial role in implementing actions to improve air quality within their areas of responsibility. The air pollution sources and mitigation