Journal of Positive School Psychology http://journalppw.com 2023, Vol. 7, No. 4, 935-943 Health Impacts Of Flood Disasters: An Evidence From Pakistan Nabeela Farah1, Saira Siddiqui2*, Saima Afzal3, Muhammad Imran Khan4, Anam Afzal5 1Visiting Lecturer, Department of Sociology, Government College University Faisalabad, Pakistan 2Lecturer, Department of Sociology, Government College University Faisalabad, Pakistan 3Assistant Professor, Department of Sociology, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan, Pakistan 4Visiting Lecturer, Department of Sociology, Government College University Faisalabad, Pakistan 5Visiting Lecturer, Department of Sociology, The Women University Multan, Pakistan *Corresponding author email: sairasiddiqui14@hotmail.com Abstract Climate creates tumultuous environmental conditions with dire health outcomes. Every year, floods and harsh weather conditions lead to significant morbidity and mortality worldwide. Floods increase mortality rates and pose challenges to the health of survivors. This study seeks to determine the vulnerability and health impacts of these catastrophic floods by analyzing injury, mortality, and illness patterns. Our systematic review of 30 research articles evaluated health sector conditions during floods and extreme weather events. The findings show a significant impact of flooding on human health. The study found immediate impacts from flooding are usually due to injuries, infections, and disruption to health services. Floods heightened the risk of disease outbreaks, including fever, dengue, pink eye, hepatitis E, leptospirosis, and gastrointestinal illness, particularly in unsanitary and displaced populations. A recent systematic review concluded that the physical illness of flood survivors is often compounded by psychological distress and mental health issues. To address the effects of flooding on human health in a sustainable manner, this study suggests new policy measures that will improve the efficacy of the existing flood coping techniques. Keywords: flood, health, climate, illness, risks, deaths. INTRODUCTION Climate change poses the most significant global challenge (Adams and Luchsinger, 2009). Climate change threatens global sustainability, especially in rural communities of developing countries. The serious effects of climate change have just become apparent in Pakistan. Over the past ten years, extensive flooding in the Indus River system has resulted in significant damage. (Ajani and Van, 2021). Regardless of one's geographical or financial background, it has multifaceted impacts on our society, affecting crucial aspects such as food production, access to water, health, habitat, and biodiversity (Adams and Luchsinger, 2009). The consensus among world climate scientists and activists is that these changes are human-induced (Caney, 2012). Unfortunately, experts predict that some climate changes may be irreversible, and their catastrophic effects could severely impact the well-being and livelihoods of vulnerable