has resulted in the loss of critical medical equipment and supplies. In a nation where half the population already lacks access to primary healthcare, the loss of over 2000 hospitals and healthcare facilities exacerbates the country's public health issues. In flood-affected regions, immunizers have adapted their practices to provide medical assistance while minimizing disruptions to polio vaccination efforts. Nevertheless, the lack of access to healthcare facilities and the displacement of numerous individuals increase the risk of disease transmission and impede immunizers' ability to reach unvaccinated populations. Meanwhile, political issues in Pakistan are a concern. Rehman (2022) demonstrated that politics in the country does not prioritize the well-being of ordinary citizens. The government's neglect of floodrelated health issues in Pakistan is a stark example of how political factors impact the nation's healthcare sector. According to Pakistan Flood (2022), devastating floods serve as a reminder that systemic changes are necessary to address underlying vulnerabilities to natural disasters and how these vulnerabilities interact with other shocks. An urgent paradigm shift toward incorporating resilience to natural disasters in development planning and asset management is required at this stage. Floods can also exacerbate pre-existing health conditions, such as asthma and skin diseases, due to exposure to environmental irritants and increased humidity (Khan, 2022). Pregnant women and girls are particularly vulnerable during floods, with muchlacking access to healthcare facilities and support needed to deliver their children safely (UNFPA, 2022). The challenges of mobility and migration in flood-affected areas further exacerbate the health risks faced by communities (Paavola, 2017). Floods have significant implications for public health, and it is crucial to address these issues in disaster management planning and response. Amidst the destruction of healthcare facilities and homes, many are uncertain about where and how to give birth. The healthcare sectors in developing countries suffer from the damaging effects of floods, which impede patients' access to essential health services (Shah et al., 2020; Winter et al., 2022). Latif (2019) estimated that Pakistan had lost $80 billion as a result of climate change disasters between 1996 and 2016 and found alarmingly, all four provinces Sindh, Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP), and Balochistan. Families who were displaced by floods in these areas lacked proper shelter health and sanitation facilities (Salik et al., 2020). Women who are pregnant or menstruating are also in an awful situation since they cannot access bathroom facilities or menstrual supplies. Maternal health services are required since