(KP), and Balochistan. Families who were displaced by floods in these areas lacked proper shelter health and sanitation facilities (Salik et al., 2020). Women who are pregnant or menstruating are also in an awful situation since they cannot access bathroom facilities or menstrual supplies. Maternal health services are required since the research indicates that 73,000 of the 650,000 pregnant women in flood-affected areas are expected to give birth within the following month. In addition to those giving birth, the extensive harm done to the roads and communication networks makes it more difficult for people to attend clinics and hospitals. As a result, these obstacles must also be overcome by women and girls who want to obtain contraception and other reproductive health services METHODS To collect the data, we selected 30 authentic papers from various online databases and 939 Journal of Positive School Psychology websites, including Google Scholar, Web of Knowledge, Science Direct, and Scopus. The selected papers and reports were published between 2003 to 2022. The authors gave particular attention to recent but well-referenced literature. The selection criteria for relevant literature were predominantly based on the following factors: a) peer-reviewed research papers published in impact factor-listed research journals; b) peer-reviewed scientific reports (on Flood) from world-renowned publishers; c) news reports and d) literature that used keywords such as flood, climate, health, social impacts, developing countries, and floods in Pakistan DISCUSSION Climate change caused environmental turmoil leading to severe health consequences. Worldwide floods and extreme weather cause significant morbidity and mortality annually. Pakistan has regular floods as a result of the country's intense monsoon rainfall. Any country would have struggled with floods of the extent and scope that Pakistan has seen in recent years. Due in part to limitations in present technology capabilities, such as warning signals, preparedness activities, disaster response, and systemic flood protection measures, recent major floods have demonstrated that there is a lack of appropriate collaboration amongst flood control organizations. Survivors face health challenges, and floods increase mortality rates. This study analyzed illness patterns to determine flood vulnerability and impacts. The systematic review of various articles and reports evaluated health conditions during extreme weather. Disease outbreaks occur in unsanitary and displaced populations, including fever, dengue, and gastrointestinal illness. Flood survivors suffer from psychological distress and mental health issues. Effective policies must prevent floodrelated morbidity and mortality, based on our systematic literature review. Catastrophic floods affect physical and mental