for roll out of NCAP. The MoCC shall coordinate national and international transboundary air pollution issues and ensure their compliance with international commitments. Furthermore, MoCC shall support research on environmental issues related to air pollution and its co-benefits for climate change mitigation. The relevant federal and provincial ministries and line departments will be responsible for implementing the relevant sectoral policy recommendations. 18 The Pakistan Environmental Protection Council (PEPC) shall oversee the implementation of the NCAP on the progress report submitted by MoCC. In parallel provincial Environmental Protection Councils shall ensure provincial implementation of the NCAP and related provincial action plans. The responsibility for monitoring, control and mitigation of air pollution has been devolvedto the provinces under the 18th Constitutional Amendment. Thus, the federal and provincial EPAs shall review and update NEQS/PEQS and set the NCAP monitoring targets. The EPAs shall devise the targets in accordance with WHO’s Guidelines. 5.3 Stakeholders Engagement Implementation of the NCAP will require active participation from the stakeholders that including public sector institutional, research bodies, civil society and media/advocacy groups. Options shall be explored for engaging the private sector through Public Private Partnership (PPP) in areas that require high investment and technical and management expertise, such as mass transit systems and solid waste management Initiatives under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) will be encouraged to implement policy necessary measures. 5.4 Resource Mobilization The implementation of the Policy would require allocation of public sector funds. The private sector will have a major role to play in shifting to technologies and upgrades that result in lower emission of pollutants. In addition, some of the most high impact measures, such as the introduction of electric vehicles, or upgrading fuel standards will be implemented by the private sector and will be driven primarily by fiscal and tax incentives. In this regard, MoCC shall coordinate with international donor agencies to access funds for implementation of NCAP at the federal and provincial levels. Opportunities under the various climate finance windows along with generating additional resources from market-based mitigation instruments shall be explored. 5.5 Communication and Outreach Providing information and guidance to the public on environmental matters, such as air pollution, is entrenched in Pakistan’s federal and provincial environmental laws, and shall be a cornerstone of NCAP’s communication. Governmental organizations at all levels shall devise appropriate strategies to share information in a harmonized manner. Ultimately, improved knowledge among the general public about positive