NCAP which further facilitates enhanced implementation and devising Clean Air Action Plans b. Promote ways and means of effective communication channels to enhance the outreach of information to public and private sector key stakeholders including communities c. Strengthening research on priority aspects related to air pollution for facilitating informed decision for policy and strategy. Preparation of Air Pollutants & SLCP Inventory for Pakistan d. Targeted training programs for monitoring, compliance/regulatory control, advocacy and knowledge management for clean air in Pakistan 14 4.2 Impact of Five Priority Interventions on Air Pollution in Pakistan The National Clean Air Policy has identified one priority intervention in each of the five sectors with the aim of accelerating progress to reduce air pollutant emissions across all major air pollution emission sources. The five priority interventions are: The Pakistan Clean Air Policy has identified one priority intervention in each of the five major air pollutant-emitting sectors with the aim of accelerating progress to reduce air pollutant emissions across all major air pollution emission sources. The five priority interventions are: a. Households: Promoting Use of Low Emission Cooking Technologies. Switching to improved efficiency biomass cookstoves, and cleaner fuels like LPG and electricity for cooking can reduce emissions from the household sector. Implementing this intervention has a double benefit. It reduces the emissions of air pollutants and indoor and outdoor exposure. b. Transport: Implement Euro-5 and Euro-6 Fuel Quality Standards. This intervention reduces the sulphur and other pollutants in fuel which reduces air pollution. c. Industry: Enforce emission standards for industries. This intervention requires that industries comply with emission standards that control the emission of key air pollutants such as particulate matter through the mandatory fitting of particulate filters to high-polluting machinery. d. Waste: Prevent open burning of Municipal Solid Waste. This intervention applies at landfill sites which require best practices of land fill management to reduce the chances of fires breaking out at existing landfill sites. e. Agriculture: Preventing burning of Agricultural Residue. This intervention promotes alternative uses of agricultural residue (for animal feed, for fuel) or their reincorporation into the soil. The implementation of these five priority interventions is expected to make a substantial contribution to improving air quality across Pakistan. The scientific estimate of SLCP inventory accounts that the below mentioned high-priority actions is expected to reduce PM2.5 emissions by 38% in 2030 compared to the baseline scenario, and by 21% compared to 2020 levels.