for industrial emissions known as SelfMonitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology (SMART).15. SMART system is based on the polluter pays principle, those who pollute should bear the cost of managing the pollution, it serves a twofold purpose, one discourages emissions and second aids the EPA in collecting data at a lesser cost. It may be noted that the EPA, over the years, has determined acceptable levels of air pollutant emissions by establishing National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS) under Section-6 of the PEPA, 1997 through various notifications (PEPA, 2010). Upon promulgation of the 18th Amendment to the Constitution, the subjects of “environment” and “sustainable development” have been devolved on to the provinces. The National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) provides overarching guidelines and recommendations for improving air quality that can be implemented at the provincial level. The federal government and provinces can work together to coordinate their efforts. 2.1.3 The Pakistan Climate Change Act, 2017 : The relevant line Ministries/Divisions have created several policies to support the implementation of constitutional guarantees and national legislative framework. The most relevant policies for NCAP are listed below: 14 Section 5 of PEPA 1997 15 NEQS (Self-Monitoring and Reporting Industry Rules) 2001 6 2.1.4 National Climate Change Policy, 2021 a. Air pollution was recognized as an important climate change threat to Pakistan under Section 3(5) “increasing air pollution from agriculture, transport and industry resulting into smog inflicting huge loss to aviation, reduced mobility, loss of lives in accidents due to poor visibility and health hazards”. b. In Section 5 NCCP mentions the policy actions that promote the mitigation of poor air quality and reduction in emissions. It policy recommends interventions to reduce GHG emissions in the following sectors-energy, transport, urban planning, waste management, industries, forestry and agriculture. In 2017-18, Pakistan’s total GHG emissions were 490 million tons of CO2 equivalent. c. Section 7 recommends initiating programmes to create public awareness on issues relevant to climate change including air pollution. 2.1.5 Updated Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC), 2021 Pakistan’s updated NDC emphasizes that air pollution and mitigation of SLCP are key components of its climate change commitments. This recognition is operationalized through the identification of specific policies and measures that will achieve air quality benefits alongside SLCP and GHG emission reductions. Pakistan’s NDC also identifies actions to increase coordination and alignment between climate change and air quality planning. For example, the NDC explicitly identifies the revision of the Pakistan