public on environmental matters, such as air pollution, is entrenched in Pakistan’s federal and provincial environmental laws, and shall be a cornerstone of NCAP’s communication. Governmental organizations at all levels shall devise appropriate strategies to share information in a harmonized manner. Ultimately, improved knowledge among the general public about positive health impacts of clean air will increase public support for NCAP and its Implementation Plans. Public sector institutions involved in air quality management shall communicate air quality data to the general public. Public outreach shall be ensured through media. Citizens and stakeholders would also be sensitized about individual and collective actions that prevent air pollution. Industries can be encouraged to voluntarily report air quality data to the public, thus showing leadership and encouraging other industries to commit to reducing air pollution from their operations. 19 5.6 Reporting, Periodic Review and Updation of NCAP This Policy document shall be reviewed every 5 years, based on National Air Pollutant Emissions Inventory and accordingly, the Implementation Plans shall also be updated. The Air Pollutant Emission Inventory shall be updated every year. The MoCC shall host an annual National Clean Air Conference (NCAC). 20 6. Annexures Annex-I Envisaged Institutional Roles and Responsibilities for Implementation of Priority Policy Recommendations Policy Measures Key Stakeholders Mass Transit a. Ministry of Communications b. Ministry of Railways c. Ministry of Maritime Affairs d. Ministry of Aviation e. Provincial Transport Departments f. Communication and Works Departments (CWD) g. Local Governments Electric Vehicles a. Ministry of Finance b. Ministry of Industries and Production c. Ministry of Climate Change d. Engineering Development Board e. National Energy Efficiency & Conservation Authority (NEECA), f. Alternate Energy Development Board (AEDB) g. Provincial Transport Departments h. Private Sector Improved Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance a. Pakistan Environment Protection Council b. Provincial Transport Departments c. Excise and taxation Offices (ETOs)/Motor Vehicle Examiners (MVEs) d. Traffic Police Emission Control in Industry a. Pakistan Environment Protection Council b. Ministry of Climate Change c. Ministry of Industries and Production d. Provincial EPAs e. Provincial Industries Departments f. Police Upgrading Fuel Quality Standards a. Pakistan Environment Protection Council b. Ministry of Energy, Petroleum Division c. Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority d. Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority with support from Oil Companies 21 Policy Measures Key Stakeholders e. Advisory Committee Prohibition of Open Waste Burning a. Local Governments b. Waste management companies c. Capital Development Authority (CDA) d. Municipal Corporations; Town Councils; Village