cities. e. . The market penetration of EVs in Pakistan should be expedited through legal mandates, subsidies, and investment in related infrastructure Phased modernization of public fleet towards EV technology. f. Promote low carbon, fuel efficient infrastructure and technology within railways, maritime, aviation and development of clear road map that promote the use of freight services. g. Introduce mechanism for zoning on the basis of AQI to regulate traffic movement. h. Strengthen regulatory control for traffic management (focusing on big cities), through measures like strengthening of parking facilities, introduction of mechanism for imposing taxation to discourage motorized transport. 12 4.1.3 Urban Planning and Management a. Promote urban greening, through measures like urban forestry, management of green spaces/parks, etc. b. Promote non-motorized mobility, through development and management of infrastructure like removal of encroachments, development of micro infrastructure, while ensuring gender considerations c. Implement measures to reduce dispersion of particulate matter/dust, specially from construction sites/roadsides d. Promote adoption of green building codes to reduce the indoor air pollution and ensure energy efficiency. Encourage use of environmentally friendly materials in construction to reduce reliance on conventional materials e. Improve land-use planning to ensure dedicated space is available for housing and discourage creation of housing societies near industrial areas 4.1.4 Industrial Sector a. Revision of existing industrial emission standards, where necessary, and the establishment of sectoral industrial emission standards to address and mitigate emissions of air pollutants specific to each industry type. b. Strengthen regulatory measures to ensure compliance with NEQS/PEQS, with priority focus on high impact industry and conduction of third party audits c. Restriction on establishment of new industries within cities by establishing industrial sites outside cities d. Gradual upgradation of industries towards low-emission technologies, like upgradation of all brick kilns to zigzag by 2025 e. Impose immediate and complete ban on high polluting industries like pyrolysis of tires, burning of coal in traditional furnaces, etc., and practices like elimination of Hydro-Flouro Carbon (HFC) emissions from contained and emissive application and elimination of gas flaring in oil and gas sector f. Standards should be developed for diesel power generation sets below the 800kilowatt (KW) category For already operational diesel generation sets, ensure usage of either of the two options:(a) use of retrofitted emission control equipment having a minimum specified PM capturing efficiency of at least 70%, type approved by one of the accredited labs; or (b) shifting to gas-based generators by employing