the health ramifications of floods, necessitating collaboration among governmental entities, civil society, and the private sector. Conclusions and Strategies The focus of this research mainly relied over the health impacts on livelihood regarding the flood. The literature based research provided a sight full consequences regarding the flood and its impacts on health. On behalf of the results, the study concludes that that climate change has been the major factor of flood including heavy rainfall as predicted in the literature. It is also concluded that the flood affected health concerns noted in the literature was asthma, respiratory issues, skin irritations, malaria and other were well observed specifically in children, pregnant women, elder and the old age. Where, there is a need of health interventions in the study area to fulfil the gap and provide a better environment and sustainability. Government policies have a key role to play in increasing health access and managing disaster risks during floods. This includes ensuring access to podiatry and mental health services. A proactive and coordinated humanitarian response is essential to reduce health disparities and support the well-being of displaced populations. Governments can implement strategies to mitigate the health impacts of floods, such as subsidies, tax exemptions, and other financial measures. This approach requires addressing the political and social factors that influence flood management decisions. Ecosystems play a key role in shaping climate change and can be key factors in building social resilience. Managing ecosystems based on principles of biodiversity science can help communities adapt to climate change. Flood risk management strategies can help address gaps in disaster preparedness and response. Effective flood management depends on active participation, coordination, and engagement of the public and private sectors, with clear and enforceable regulations. It is important to create a balance of certainty and flexibility in regulations to respond to changing circumstances. Limitations of the study The study is in line with literature based research which has some certain limitations, firstly, the research should be carried out to conduct primary data on mixed method approaches to gain more justifiable results. Secondly, the research is only a literature, conducting systematic analysis or secondary analysis could provide more benefits in research outcomes. Thirdly, the research should be carried out on comparative parameters to be adjusted for policy measures to be taken for better health conditions. References 1. Adams, J., and Luchsinger, G. (2009). Climate change and drylands: beyond the drought.