800kilowatt (KW) category For already operational diesel generation sets, ensure usage of either of the two options:(a) use of retrofitted emission control equipment having a minimum specified PM capturing efficiency of at least 70%, type approved by one of the accredited labs; or (b) shifting to gas-based generators by employing new gas-based generators or retrofitting the existing diesel generation sets for partial gas usage 4.1.5 Agriculture, Forestry and Land-Use a. Impose immediate and complete ban on burning of crop residues, and introduction of low-cost alternative options for agriculture waste management. Promotion of circular economy in agriculture waste management b. Enhanced public-private partnerships and adopt and upscale available solutions for agriculture systems, like utilizing engineering controls to control particulate matter generation from tilling and threshing during crop harvesting 13 c. Introduce and upscale measures to reduce emissions from livestock sector d. Strengthen measures for management of forest fires, including effective preparedness, avoidance and immediate control of incidents 4.1.6 Waste a. Impose immediate and complete ban on open burning of solid waste across Pakistan b. Introduction of Integrated Waste Management System (IWMS) in 10 cities by 2025 and development of scientifically designed and managed landfill sites in 5 cities by 2025 and up to 10 cities by 2030 c. Develop at least 2 models for waste to energy by 2025, upscaling to 10 cities of Pakistan by 2030, through clear guidance on power tariffs, tipping fees that facilitates introduction of waste-to energy technologies in Pakistan 4.1.7 Energy a. Introduce and promote measures to reduce indoor air pollution like, improved cookstoves, provision of alternate domestic fuels like Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) and renewable energy sources to reduce exposure to pollutants b. Introduce de-carbonization framework for power sector towards carbon neutrality targets 4.1.8 Strengthening Clean Air Diplomacy a. Establishment of effective regional coordination mechanism to take up matters related to transboundary air pollution in accordance with international agreements/treaties under the lead of Ministry of Climate Change b. Strengthen research and planning, through initiating joint air pollution modelling activities in regional context 4.1.9 Enabling Environment a. Establish institutional arrangements for effective coordination and implementation of NCAP which further facilitates enhanced implementation and devising Clean Air Action Plans b. Promote ways and means of effective communication channels to enhance the outreach of information to public and private sector key stakeholders including communities c. Strengthening research on priority aspects related to air pollution for facilitating informed decision