evaluated health conditions during extreme weather. Disease outbreaks occur in unsanitary and displaced populations, including fever, dengue, and gastrointestinal illness. Flood survivors suffer from psychological distress and mental health issues. Effective policies must prevent floodrelated morbidity and mortality, based on our systematic literature review. Catastrophic floods affect physical and mental health via bacteria, viruses, and pathogens. They cause diarrhea, cholera, dengue fever, and hepatitis E outbreaks. Mosquitoes and other vectors thrive in stagnant floodwaters. Chronic respiratory diseases, anxiety, and depression are long-term health impacts. Displaced people face more vulnerability as they lack clean water, sanitation, and medical care. Elderly, pregnant women, children, and pre-existing medical conditions make individuals more susceptible to floods. Certain populations, such as low-income communities in informal settlements, are more susceptible to the effects of floods due to a lack of basic services and living in flood-prone areas. Indigenous communities, migrant workers, and refugees are also at high risk due to limited access to services and legal protection. The findings of this study explored that in Pakistan, the key factor is extensive post-flood rehabilitation to prevent long-term negative impacts on health and economic development. Flooding causes infrastructure damage, productivity loss, and increased healthcare costs. Prioritizing the recovery of livelihoods and agriculture, the reconstruction of private homes, and the restoration of public health facilities and infrastructure, including roads, bridges, and schools, is crucial. To achieve this, a resilient recovery, rehabilitation, and reconstruction framework is needed. Pakistan requires an honest and inclusive participatory strategy that brings together the public and private sectors, academia, think tanks, and the global community around a shared objective. On the other side, it is important to prioritize vulnerable populations in disaster preparedness and response efforts. Effective policies and interventions can reduce the health impacts of floods and extreme weather events. This study has limitations to consider. Published articles are only used in the review, which may miss some flood-related health information. Quality of evidence can affect our findings. It Nabeela Farah 940 does not examine specific interventions and more research is needed. Vulnerability factors should be addressed in future research, including social, economic, and political factors. Communitybased interventions to promote resilience and reduce vulnerability should also be studied. Effective policies and interventions can mitigate economic losses from floods, promoting sustainable development. The urgent need for policies and interventions to prevent floodrelated morbidity and mortality is highlighted by this systematic review. Catastrophic floods can have