the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030 requires implementing coordinated and concerted strategies for air pollutants that maximizes synergies. Mitigating short-lived climate pollutants (SLCPs) with high global warming potential is an action that offers multiple dividends in terms of mitigating greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions as well as controlling air pollution contributing to achieving both the NDCs and SDGs. One of the major impacts of climate change that Pakistan is facing is internal migration toward cities for better livelihood opportunities. The cities of Pakistan continue to grow, offering employment opportunities, however rapid urbanization has been accompanied by environmental problems such as air pollution, ineffective waste management, traffic congestion, and the ecosystem destruction. This policy, informed by the National Inventory for Short-Lived Climate Pollutants (SLCP) marks the start of change. It sets a roadmap for change by identifying a contextualized solution for Pakistan to manage air pollutants alongside other GHGs. I congratulate the contributors on developing this policy document and bridging the knowledge gap for decision-makers through various scenarios to indicate priority actions and co-benefits in addressing global warming and environmental damage. Senator Sherry Rehman Minister for Climate Change iv Acknowledgement National Clean Air Policy has been prepared by Ministry of Climate Change, Government of Pakistan. The Policy is informed by the evidence generated by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Mr. Christopher S. Malley from the Stockholm Energy Institute (SEI). v Abbreviations and Acronyms ADB Asian Development Bank AEDB Alternate Energy Development Board AJK Azad Jammu and Kashmir ARI Acute Respiratory Infections ALRI Acute Lower Respiratory Infections AQI Air Quality Index AQM Air Quality Management CDA Capital Development Authority CO Carbon monoxide CO2 Carbon di oxide CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CWDs Communication and Works Departments EPA/s Environmental Protection Agency/ Agencies EPDs Environmental Protection Departments EV Electric Vehicle G-B Gilgit-Baltistan GCISC Global Change Impact Studies Center GDP Gross Domestic Product GHG Greenhouse Gases HFCs Hydro-Flouro Carbons IAP Indoor Air Pollution ICS Improved Cook Stoves IEA International Energy Association IWMS Integrated Waste Management System KW Kilo Watt LEAP Low Emissions Analysis Platform MVEs Motor Vehicle Examiners vi NCAC National Clean Air Conference NDC Nationally Determined Contribution NCAC National Clean Air Conference NCAP National Clean Air Policy/ Programme NCCP National Climate Change Policy, 2021 NEECA National Energy Efficiency and Conservation Authority NEQS National Environmental Quality Standards NOx Nitrogen Oxide m-3 Cubic meter O3 Ozone MoCC Ministry of Climate Change PEPA Pakistan Environment Protection Act,