According to Peel et al. (2018), floods damage buildings and infrastructure severely, which disrupts essential social activities and hinders efforts to improve poor health conditions. The impact of flooding on public health outcomes has been staggering, with approximately 2.3 million people affected worldwide over the last two decades. As 231 mm of rain fell in under 12 hours in August 2020, Karachi experienced the highest day of rain in recorded history. Only Karachi had 484 mm (19 inches) of rain in August 2020. For the past 90 years, this rainfall record is the highest. Many residential areas, including urban slums and villages in peri-urban regions, were severely affected by flooding caused by rainwater and overflowing water from nullahs and drains. This severely damaged the life of the residents. Much of Pakistan was flooded from June to August 2022. The worst-affected provinces were Balochistan and Sindh, although floods had also devastated other regions of the nation as far north as Kashmir. At least 1,500 people died in the flooding with 16 million children affected (Giskori, 2022; Ahmed, 2022). Floods of 2022 have caused unprecedented damage, affecting people's lives, property, and livelihoods on an unprecedented scale. The calamity was caused by the heaviest and most intense monsoon rains ever recorded, impacting one in seven individuals, or approximately 33 million people, and displacing nearly 8 million. Despite relief efforts, an estimated 15 million people are still at risk of flooding or living nearby. The flood has claimed more than 1,700 lives, with children accounting Nabeela Farah 938 for a third of the fatalities. As of October 11, government officials have declared 94 districts as "calamity struck," representing over half of all districts in the country. The majority of these districts are located in Balochistan, Sindh, and KP provinces (Pakistan Flood, 2022). The pandemic was the first significant natural disaster in the past three years, followed by floods. Both of these calamities have been poorly managed by politicians, causing challenges to human health and well-being (Rehman, 2022). Geddes (2022) reported that flooding in October destroyed or damaged 10% of Pakistan's healthcare facilities. This destruction has resulted in the loss of critical medical equipment and supplies. In a nation where half the population already lacks access to primary healthcare, the loss of over 2000 hospitals and healthcare facilities exacerbates the country's public health issues. In flood-affected regions, immunizers have adapted their practices to provide medical