NCAP is a national document, and therefore focuses on actions at the national scale that can achieve improvements in air quality across Pakistan. However, the provinces of Pakistan have a crucial role in implementing actions to improve air quality within their areas of responsibility. The air pollution sources and mitigation actions in each province necessary to improve air quality may differ. Therefore, each province will follow an internal planning and consultation process to adjust priorities and to define specific actions and measures that will work best in the provincial and local context. The NCAP does not intend to replace ongoing initiatives by the provinces to improve air quality, but instead supplement those initiatives and allow cooperation with other provinces, experts, and stakeholders to formulate more coherent strategies and actions plans. The first National Air Pollutant Emission Inventory for Pakistan was developed in 2022 by the Ministry of Climate Change (MoCC) with the support from development partners. An emission inventory is a key air quality management tool, as it estimates the magnitude of emissions from all major source sectors. The results of Pakistan’s First National Air Pollutant Emission Inventory show the following five high polluting sectors in order of listing that cause significant contribution to air pollution: a. Transport b. Industry c. Agricultural waste/Biomass d. Solid Waste e. Residential/Building sectors 3.1 Policy Goal The goal of NCAP is “to improve air quality in the country through implementation of various policies, technological, and management actions including the air quality mointoring”. 3.2 Policy Objectives The NCAP includes four policy objectives that, taken together, can allow key institutions at national and provincial levels to understand the air quality status, and identify, evaluate, implement and monitor mitigation actions to reduce emissions. These objectives include: 9 a. Data Collection and Baseline: NCAP promotes regular generation and compilation of scientific data to establish the baseline and ensure effective monitoring of the policy implementation. b. Establishing Air Quality Targets: NCAP outlines air quality targets, based on NEQS and Provincial Environmental Quality Standards (PEQS), and consistent with WHO’s Air Quality Guideline Interim Targets, 2021. c. Identifying Key Mitigation Actions: NCAP identifies key specific, concrete mitigation actions that can be taken forward and implemented in order to target the major sources of air pollutant emissions. d. Outlining Implementation Framework: NCAP outlines a framework by which the air quality management will effectively be coordinated, to ensure that the mitigation actions are