O th n Friday 8 October 2021, the United Nations (UN) Human Rights Council in a “historic breakthrough” declared access to an environment without pollution as a fundamental human right. By recognizing that a healthy environment is a human right, the world body has formally added its support to the global fight against climate change and its devastating consequences. The UN declaration is critical for a world where nine million preventable deaths are caused due to environmental crises yearly. This landmark declaration has firmly established, through research, an association between climate change, environmental degradation and its adverse effects on health. Reversing the level of current greenhouse gas emissions during this decade is crucial to prevent future disasters like extreme heat waves, flooding, tropical storms, rising sea levels supercharged by trapped carbons in the biosphere. As the clock is ticking for the planet's survival, catastrophic health related impacts are equally challenging. The UN Secretary General has termed this 2 emergency as “red code for humanity”. The planet's ecosystem and environment serve as health determinants for the entire humankind. The recent surge in dengue in Pakistan, and COVID 19 pandemic underscore increase of zoonotic diseases, comprising various bacteria, parasites, viruses, fungi proliferating wildly and affecting global populations across continents. Research has established that severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARSCoV-2) travelled from bats to humans through mutation in intermediate host 3 of an unknown species. Unrestrained human activity & climate change figure in the destruction of ecosystems and likelihood of further pandemics. Likewise, dengue transmission is on rise due to unusual global warming, as various vectors like mosquitoes, previously rare in this part of the world, are breeding faster. Consequently, the geographical distribution of vector-borne infectious diseases is likely to proliferate with an incremental increase in the duration and 4 intensity of heat and humidity globally. “Humanity is now standing at a crossroads. We must now decide which path we want to take. How do we want the future living conditions for all living species to be like?” remarked Greta 5 Thunberg. Reversing these trends would require a herculean effort on part of governments, public health systems and civil society organizations. Whereas, informed policy making is crucial to factor in climate change and public health impacts as a whole, public participation and advocacy campaigns are equally important in creating a critical movement towards a healthier world. Globally, air pollution remains a major public