5% by 2030, mainly due to Pakistan's increased vulnerability as a consequence of climate change”. It states that 49 m reside in “high risk” areas where their health and wellbeing is directly affected by water scarcity, disease outbreak and water & food insecurity. The damage is amplified, being the fastest urbanizing 17 country in South Asia,”. Peshawar has also been one of the leading cities with unhealthy air quality. The World Economic Forum 2016 report states, “amongst the 3,000 cities in the WHO's air quality database, Peshawar ranked in second place, 18 followed by Zabol in Iran. An ongoing research by Prof Dr Mohmammad Rafique, “Welfare impact of dust pollution on human health in district Khyber, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan”, was conducted on a population bordering industrial estate near Hayatabad Township. The analysis of air pollution the Pakistan Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (PCSIR) report on 26 December 2018 concluded hazardous levels of 2450 ppm as against EPA permissible 150 ppm level. It was ground level estimation as against customary elevated level measurement. On that particular day, as per PCSIR measurement of analysis it was “16 times higher meaning it was extremely hazardous” for human health. Another study titled, “Health costs of brick kilns emissions in Peshawar: A Policy Analysis” estimated, “Total welfare benefit in terms of health cost for district Peshawar is PKR 6692.985 million or (PKR 6.7 billion) per annum with air quality mitigation to a safer level. Besides, 36 days per annum is estimated as the productivity loss by individuals. For each household the monetary benefit to avoid the restricted day of working is PKR 198, whereas the monetary benefit for the Peshawar city is PKR 107.935 million 4,19 of bringing down the PM10 level. Globally, the vision for clear blue skies and pollution free world is gaining momentum. A two day UN summit on Climate Change (COP26), comprising 120 heads of state & governments at Glasgow, to find ways towards a cleaner world and reducing global warming. “The climate crisis has already been solved. We already have all the facts and solutions. All we have to do is to wake up and change.” urged the 17 year old activist Greta Thunberg. It is through interactive partnerships with civil society, academia, and public health experts and government that the vision for healthy Peshawar and Pakistan can achieve successful outcomes. Public health specialists need to generate more evidence