NCAP identifies key specific, concrete mitigation actions that can be taken forward and implemented in order to target the major sources of air pollutant emissions. d. Outlining Implementation Framework: NCAP outlines a framework by which the air quality management will effectively be coordinated, to ensure that the mitigation actions are implemented, and air quality targets are monitored and achieved. 3.3 Prioritization of Air Quality Targets Defining multiple Air Quality Targets that focus on different health-damaging air pollutants and cover short, medium, and long-term periods ensures a comprehensive approach to air quality improvement. In practice resources and capacity is constrained at Federal and Provincial levels in pursuing these Air Quality Targets, meaning that there is a need to prioritize the targets based on following outlines: a. Focus on Actions that contribute to multiple Air Quality Targets: To achieve the Air Quality Targets, it is required that mitigation actions are implemented which reduce air pollutant emissions from major sources. Many of these actions can concurrently reduce emissions and concentrations of multiple air pollutants, thereby contributing to the achievement of defined Air Quality Targets. The identification of those actions that reduce air pollutant emissions and can contribute to achieving multiple Air Quality targets should be prioritized. b. Prioritize achievement of PM2.5 Air Quality Targets: In comparison to other air pollutants, PM2.5 has the largest disease burden and impact on human health. Therefore, achievement of the PM2.5 Air Quality Targets could have the greatest impact on improving public health compared to the other Air Quality Targets across Pakistan. As mitigation actions are identified and evaluated, the impact of those actions on reducing PM2.5 concentrations should be prioritized. c. Prioritize achievement of long-term exposure Air Quality Targets: In comparison to short-term exposure to air pollution, long-term, chronic exposure has a substantially larger impact on human health. Therefore, priority should be given to achieving the long-term Air Quality Targets, in comparison to the short-term targets. Mitigation actions should thus be identified that decrease air pollutant emissions, contributing the most to the annual concentrations of specific pollutants.. In many cases, the actions which reduce emissions across the year will also reduce short-term peaks in air pollutant emissions. 10 Table 2: Ambient Air Quality Targets Pollutant Frequency Target PM2.5 Annual average 35 µg m-3 PM2.5 24 hour 75 µg m-3 PM10 Annual 70 µg m-3 PM10 24-hour 150 µg m-3 Ozone (O3) Average daily maximum 8-h concentration over