Planning and Development Departments including AJK and G-B Members 7. Director General (Climate Change/Environment), Ministry of Climate Change Member/ Secretary 8. Heads of Director General, Pakistan Meteorological Department (PMD)/Executive Director, Global Change Impact Studies Centre (GCISC)/Managing Director, National Energy Efficiency & Conservation Authority (NEECA)/ Chief Executive Officer, Alternative Energy Development Board (AEDB)/Chairman, Capital Development Authority (CDA)/Chairman, Space & Upper Atmosphere Research Commission (SUPARCO) Members 17 5.1.2 Composition of Technical Committee 1. Additional Secretary, Ministry of Climate Change Chair 2. Director General, Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency Member 3. Member Infrastructure Planning Commission/Additional Chief Secretaries Provincial Planning and Development Departments Member 4. Provincial Environmental Protection Agencies (EPAs) of including AJK and G-B Members 5. Secretaries Environment/Agriculture/Forest/ Health/Energy/Planning & Development/ Local Government/ Public Health Departments; Members 6. Three representatives from the corporate sector/Chambers of Commerce and Industries and civil society organizations Members 7. Three eminent experts from the field academia Members 5.2 Roles and Responsibilities The NCAP will be supplemented by a national level Implementation Plan which will be rolled out within one year of the approval of the Policy. It shall clearly articulate the program of activities to implement NCAP. The Plan shall also set the targets for strengthening air quality standards and the roles and responsibilities of different entities. The provincial governments will develop the Provincial Clean Air Action Plans through their respective Environment departments. For policy implementation, key institutions relevant for the implementation of priority mitigation actions shall be identified in the Implementation Plan/s wherein institutional responsibilities will be broadly placed in three categories: a. Policy, Planning and Regulation: Signifying key institutions for policy making, defining standards and regulations, and planning institutional arrangements, capacity building and research initiatives important for the completion of a particular action b. Management and Implementation: Institutions with mandate to facilitate and oversee implementation and management of mitigation measures c. Enforcement: Signifying institutions mandated to enforce policies, standards and regulations for a given a mitigation measures Envisaged Institutional Roles and Responsibilities for Implementation of Priority Policy Recommendations is placed at “Annex-I”. MoCC shall take the responsibility to facilitate in providing policy guidance, coordination and enabling environment for roll out of NCAP. The MoCC shall coordinate national and international transboundary air pollution issues and ensure their compliance with international commitments. Furthermore, MoCC shall support research on environmental issues related to air pollution and its co-benefits for climate change mitigation. The relevant federal and provincial ministries and line