losses. The Policy will bridge the gaps in governance mechanism, coordination, institutional strengthening, building capacity and providing monitoring and compliance framework for air quality both at national and provincial levels. There would also be strategic edge for Pakistan by addressing regional concerns regarding transboundary air pollution. 9 Based on average GDP growth from 2014 to 2019 (World Bank, n.d.) 10 It is assumed that these losses provided in PPP would be similar percentages when adjusted for nominal GDP. 11 Based on a linear relationship between PM2.5 and reduced life expectancy, consistent with the findings of (EPIC, 2020) 12 A reduction of ~75% of PM2.5 is required to bring the AQ from 200 to 100, thus it is assumed that implementation of the Plan will result in similar decrease in Ozone concentration for the purpose of this calculation. 13 Van Dingenen et al. (2009) 5 2. Alignment with other Policies and Legislation 2.1 Legal Framework and Policy Environment for Air Quality in Pakistan The concept of “environmental justice” was introduced in the jurisprudence of Pakistan by the Supreme Court in 1994 through its landmark judgment in the case of Shehla Zia (SCP, 1994). Article 9 and 14 of the Constitution of Pakistan (the “Constitution”) were interpreted to include the right to a healthier and cleaner environment as part and parcel of ‘right to life and dignity of man’. Succinctly, clean pollution free air is a fundamental right of every citizen guaranteed under the Constitution and additionally protected by the national legislative framework. 2.1.1 National Environmental Policy, 2005 The Policy provided an overarching framework for addressing the environmental issues facing Pakistan including air pollution. Section 3.2 of the policy provides broad guidelines for improving Air Quality and reducing noise pollution. 2.1.2 Pakistan Environment Protection Act (PEPA), 1997 The National legislative and regulatory framework primarily emanates from the PEPA 1997, which creates, a monitoring/regulatory body the EPA14, this body provides several provisions aimed at reducing air pollution, including prohibitions on excessive emissions, mechanisms for determining acceptable levels of emissions, penalties for offending parties, restrictions on operation of polluting vehicles, and a self-monitoring system for industrial emissions known as SelfMonitoring, Analysis and Reporting Technology (SMART).15. SMART system is based on the polluter pays principle, those who pollute should bear the cost of managing the pollution, it serves a twofold purpose, one discourages emissions and second aids the EPA in collecting data at a lesser