political factors. Communitybased interventions to promote resilience and reduce vulnerability should also be studied. Effective policies and interventions can mitigate economic losses from floods, promoting sustainable development. The urgent need for policies and interventions to prevent floodrelated morbidity and mortality is highlighted by this systematic review. Catastrophic floods can have significant health impacts, especially for vulnerable populations. Effective policies and interventions promote resilience to future extreme weather events. More research is needed to evaluate intervention effectiveness and identify factors contributing to flood vulnerability. Addressing flood health impacts requires a coordinated, multisector approach. Governments, civil society, and the private sector should work together. EMERGENCY HEALTH PLANS AND STRATEGIES FOR FLOODING Plans: It is important to consider: • Make sure that a temporary shelter can accommodate people with medical needs. • Ensure that people with chronic illnesses have a list of their required medications easily accessible. • Provide short and clear instructions on what to do in an emergency. • Train first aid workers to work with vulnerable groups. • Develop business continuity plans for primary healthcare. • Provide not only medical services, but also preventive, promotive, and rehabilitative health services for flood victims. • Incorporate the specific needs of different groups in programs for health sector surge capacity, emergency shelter, and quarantine. Strategies: • Government policies play a crucial role in improving the healthcare conditions of people during floods and managing the risk of disasters. This includes providing podiatric and mental health services. Proactive and collaborative humanitarian responses are essential to address health disparities and promote the well-being of displaced people. • The government can reduce the negative impact of floods on the health sector by employing mitigation strategies such as subsidies, exemptions, and other revenue-based measures. This requires addressing the political and social variables involved in flood management. • Ecosystems have an active influence on the climate and can be a critical expression of social resilience. Properly managing ecosystems based on biodiversity science can help humans adapt to rapid changes in the environment. • Implementing flood risk management approaches can help control fragmentation. The participation, coordination, and engagement of both private and public entities, as well as the existence of sufficient formal regulations, can aid in flood risk management. It is crucial to strike a balance between legal certainty and adaptability in regulations. REFERENCES 1. Adams, J., and Luchsinger, G. (2009). Climate change and drylands: beyond the 941 Journal of