priority interventions is expected to make a substantial contribution to improving air quality across Pakistan. The scientific estimate of SLCP inventory accounts that the below mentioned high-priority actions is expected to reduce PM2.5 emissions by 38% in 2030 compared to the baseline scenario, and by 21% compared to 2020 levels. By 2040, these five key interventions can achieve even larger emission reductions, reducing emissions by 81% in 2040 compared to the baseline scenario and by 70% compared to 2020 levels. 15 Figure 2: Cumulative impact of five priority interventions of NCAP on national total PM2.5 emissions between 2020 and 2040 16 5. Policy Implementation Mechanism Following the adoption of NCAP, the Federal Government shall assist the provinces to develop their Implementation Plans. All relevant ministries, departments and agencies shall devise plans and programs to implement the policy provisions relating to their respective sectors/subsectors. Similarly, the provincial governments, AJK, G-B and local governments shall also devise their strategies, plans and programs for implementation of the Policy. 5.1 Governance Mechanism To ensure effective policy implementation and to oversee progress in this regard, a National Action Committee shall be established at the federal level, which shall be facilitated by a Technical Committee. The National Action Committee will provide policy guidance and review progress. The Committee shall regularly review and update the NCAP every five years. The Technical Committee will be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the Policy and relevant plans. The Technical Committee will report back to National Action Committee. The composition of the committees shall be as under: 5.1.1 Composition of National Action Committee 1. Federal Minister for Climate Change Chair 2. Secretaries of Ministries including: Climate Change, Planning Development & Special Initiatives, Science and Technology, Industries and Production, Finance, Energy/ Power Division, Petroleum Division & Natural Resources, Food Security & Research, National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination, Foreign Affairs Members 3. Chief Environment, Planning Development & Special Initiatives Member 4. Director Generals of Federal and Provincial Environmental Protection Agencies (EPAs) including AJK and G-B Members 5. Secretaries of Provincial Environment Departments including AJK and G-B Member 6. Chief Secretaries Provincial Planning and Development Departments including AJK and G-B Members 7. Director General (Climate Change/Environment), Ministry of Climate Change Member/ Secretary 8. Heads of Director General, Pakistan Meteorological Department (PMD)/Executive Director, Global Change Impact Studies Centre (GCISC)/Managing Director, National Energy Efficiency & Conservation Authority (NEECA)/ Chief Executive Officer, Alternative Energy Development