management planning • Promote low carbon, fuel efficient infrastructure and technology in railway maritime, and aviation sectors • Promote urban forestry and management of green spaces • Control Emission in industry through compliance with emission standards • Upgrade and manage brick kilns using clean technologies and practices • Ban crop burning and promote alternatives Control emissions from threshing and tilling • Minimize and effectively manage forest fires • Prohibition of open waste burning • Improved waste management • Use improved and efficient cookstoves to reduce indoor air pollution • Promote access to clean energy for indoor heating and cooking • Promote energy efficiency and use of alternate energy across all sectors • Promote the use of clean energy in industrial sectors NCAP proposes establishment and strengthening of the institutional arrangements for effective coordination and implementation. It suggests ways and means of effective communication channels to enhance the outreach of information. The Policy also viii recommends strengthening research on priority aspects related to air pollution for facilitating informed decision making. The NCAP identifies one priority intervention in each of the five sectors with the aim of accelerating progress to reduce air pollutant emissions across all major sources. The five priority sectors are: I. Transport: Implement Euro-5 and Euro-6 Fuel Quality Standards II. Industry: Enforce emission standards for industries III. Agriculture: Prevent burning of agricultural residues IV. Waste: Prevent open burning of municipal solid waste V. Households/ Residential: Promote use of low emission cooking technologies. The full implementation of these interventions in the five priority sectors under NCAP will reduce PM2.5 emissions by 38% in 2030 compared to the baseline scenario and by 21% compared to 2020 levels. By 2040, these five key interventions will achieve even larger emission reductions, reducing emissions by 81% in 2040 compared to the baseline scenario and by 70% compared to 2020 levels. The World Health Organization (WHO) has established Air Quality Guidelines for the pollutants in 2021 which have highest impacts on human health, for both long and shortterm exposure. These guidelines have served as a reference for setting targets in this policy document. The proposed Air Quality Targets will ensure that the progress of the NCAP is monitored, and progress is tracked. The implementation mechanism of the NCAP requires that implementation plans at federal and provincial levels are devised. Additionally, resources will be needed for the priority mitigation measures. The successful implementation of the NCAP