governments, public health systems and civil society organizations. Whereas, informed policy making is crucial to factor in climate change and public health impacts as a whole, public participation and advocacy campaigns are equally important in creating a critical movement towards a healthier world. Globally, air pollution remains a major public health problem. According to World Health Organization (WHO) estimates, approximately 92 percent of the human population is exposed to 6 unsafe levels of air pollution. Air pollution poses a major environmental hazard to human health, alongside 7 climate change. Pakistan is no exception to the growing hazard of air pollution, as various human activities including vehicular, industrial, brick kilns units result in emissions in critical levels, raising the specter of toxic smog, particularly during the winter season in major cities of the subcontinent. According to World Population Review 2021, “Pakistan has been rated as the second-most polluted country in the world, where the average of PM2.5 particulate matter of 2.5 micrometers ( diameter) concentration ranges up to 8 65.81. On 1st November 2021 the official air quality index (AQI) of Lahore was reported at 289, while international monitoring bodies reported it as 397. This rating ranked Lahore being the most polluted city in the world, ahead of 9 its traditional rival New Delhi. During 2019, globally, Pakistan was listed as the second-most polluted country with an average PM concen2.5 10 tration of 65.81. AQI levels in Punjab ranged between the "near unhealthy" or "very unhealthy" and touched a high 11 ranking of 484. Recent medical research into the health 12 impacts of air pollution is shocking. Firstly, no “safe” levels of air pollution. Air pollution strikes at almost every organ of the human body not just the respiratory system, like asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, besides, heart conditions, strokes and even cancer. As a public health professional, it is worrying that young children are particularly at risk of air pollution; new research indicates that air pollution exposure in children adversely impacts their cognitive development. A report by United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund titled 13 “Children's Climate Risk Index states that one billion children, or half of global 2.2 billion child population, classified as living in the “extremely high risk” countries, will suffer the extreme consequences of climate change as they face “multiple and often overlapping shocks”. Pakistan is also listed among other “vulnerable” countries in the South Asian