along with targets set for SDG 6.1 and 6.2 for the province up to 2030. IMPACT OF COVID-19 ON WASH WASH is central to infection prevention and control and provision of safe water, sanitation and hygienic conditions is essential to protecting human health during all infectious disease outbreaks, including the COVID-19 outbreak. The lockdown is likely to exacerbate WASH challenges in Pakistan, especially as 10 percent of its population already practices open defecation. As more members of such households are obliged to stay at home, instead of going out to work, the question of 2017–18 to at least 10 percent by 2018–19 and 20 percent by 2030 – and the establishment of an apex body to approve legislation, policies and strategies for water resource development and management. Regional developments include the introduction of the Punjab Water Act 2019. Under this act, the provincial government has formed a commission responsible for conserving, redistributing or otherwise augmenting water resources; allocating water resources for domestic, agricultural, ecological, industrial or other purposes; securing the proper use of water resources; and establishing an Advisory Committee to advise the maintenance and development of water resources. A similar Water and Sanitation Commission was also established in Sindh. However, it was dissolved at the order of the Sindh High Court in early 2020. WASH facilities has become urgent. Funds earmarked for WASH development activities may be diverted towards managing COVID-19, as interventions on COVID-19 predominantly target health care facilities, isolation centres, quarantine sites and at-risk communities. This will affect the most vulnerable people in Pakistan, putting them at a higher risk of other diseases in the continued absence of WASH facilities. In addition, as household incomes plummet during the lockdown – especially among households dependent on daily wages to make ends meet – access to WASH facilities and adequate WASH practices are likely to decrease. A study by Xiao et al., found evidence of the COVID-19 virus in the stools of over 50 percent of patients. The study further observed that in more than 20 percent of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS CoV2) patients, the viral RNA remained positive in faeces even after the negative conversion of the viral RNA in the respiratory tract, indicating that viral gastrointestinal infection and potential faecal-oral transmission can last even after viral clearance in the respiratory tract. These finding make the role of having sound WASH facilities and strategies especially important