2% of children in FATA and 19% of children in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are registered as compared with 82% of children in ICT Islamabad. ▪ Children from the highest wealth quintile are more likely to have their births registered (76%) than children from the lowest wealth quintile (9%) (Figure 2.5). Trends: There has been improvement in formal registering of births in the past 5 years. The remarkable improvements in birth registration of children under age 5 have been observed in Balochistan (8% to 38%) followed by Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (10% to 19%), ICT (74% to 82%), and Sindh (25% to 28%) in the last 5 years. Figure 2.5 Birth registration by household wealth 9 27 44 63 76 Lowest Second Middle Fourth Highest Percentage of de jure children under age 5 whose births are registered with the civil authorities Poorest Wealthiest Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Housing Characteristics and Household Population • 15 2.8.1 Registration with NADRA National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA) is a legal entity in Pakistan that oversees registration of the population. All children under age 18 are registered using the “Bay Form,” and adults age 18 and older are issued a computerised national identity card (CNIC). These documents are compulsory for procurement of any official document such as a passport or a driver’s license, for admission in schools, and for obtaining a government job. Table 2.12 presents information on the registration status of household members. Overall, 35% of the household population under age 18 has a Bay Form. More than four in five adults (age 18 and over) in all regions have a CNIC. People living in rural areas and in the lowest wealth quintile are less likely to register with NADRA than other subgroups. 2.9 EDUCATION 2.9.1 Educational Attainment Median educational attainment Half of the population has completed less than the median number of years of schooling, and half of the population has completed more than the median number of years of schooling. Sample: De facto household population age 6 and older Tables 2.13.1 and 2.13.2 present educational attainment of household population among women and men, respectively. Half of the women and 34% of men in Pakistan have no education. Only 9% of the women have secondary and 10% have a higher level of education. Fourteen percent of men have secondary and 13% have a higher level of education. The median number of