of difficulty or cannot function at all in at least one domain. Walking or climbing steps (3%) and seeing (2%) are the two domains in which household members age 5 or above most often reported having a lot of difficulty or not being able to function at all. The proportion of household members who have a lot of difficulty or cannot function at all in at least one domain increases from 2% among those age 5-9 to 14% among those age 50-59 and 32% among those age 60 or above. The fact that 6% each of children age 5-9 and children age 10-14 have some difficulty, a lot of difficulty, or no ability at all in at least one domain is a serious matter that requires policy attention. 14.2 DISABILITY AMONG ADULTS BY OTHER BACKGROUND CHARACTERISTICS Functional domains Seeing, hearing, communicating, remembering or concentrating, walking or climbing steps, and washing all over or dressing. Sample: De facto household population age 15 or above Tables 14.2.1 and 14.2.2 present disability data for de facto household members age 15 or older by background characteristics. Nine percent of women and 7% of men age 15 or older have a lot of difficulty or cannot function at all in at least one domain. Three percent of women and 2% of men have a lot of difficulty or cannot function at all in more than one domain. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Thirty-two percent of widowed women have a lot of difficulty or cannot function at all in at least one of the domains, as compared with 10% of divorced/separated women, 8% of married women, and 3% of never-married women. A similar pattern is observed among men. ▪ Rural women (9%) and men (8%) are more likely to have a lot of difficulty or no ability at all in at least one domain than urban women (8%) and men (5%). Figure 14.1 A lot of difficulty or no ability at all in at least one domain No difficulty 81% Some difficulty 13% A lot of difficulty 5% Cannot do at all 1% Percent distribution of de facto household population age 5 and over Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Disability • 265 ▪ There is a strong negative association between difficulty in all domains and level of education. Thirteen percent of women and 14% of men with no education have a lot