and Understanding Tables from the 2017-18 PDHS • xxxi Step 1: Read the title and subtitle, highlighted in orange in the table above. They tell you the topic and the specific population group being described. In this case, the table is about ever-married women age 15-49 and their exposure to different types of media. All eligible ever-married female respondents age 15-49 were asked these questions. Step 2: Scan the column headings—highlighted in green in Example 1.They describe how the information is categorised. In this table, the first three columns of data show different types of media that ever-married women access at least once a week. The fourth column shows ever-married women who access all three types of media, while the fifth column shows ever-married women who do not access any of the three types of media on a weekly basis. The last column lists the number of ever-married women age 15-49 interviewed in the survey. Step 3: Scan the row headings—the first vertical column highlighted in blue in Example 1. These show the different ways the data are divided into categories based on population characteristics. In this case, the table presents ever-married women’s exposure to media by age, urban-rural residence, level of education, wealth quintile, and region. Regions are further divided into urban-rural residence. Most of the tables in the PDHS report will be divided into these same categories. Step 4: Look at the row near the bottom of the table highlighted in pink. These percentages represent the totals (excluding Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan) of all ever-married women age 15-49 and their weekly access to different types of media. In this case, 5.1%* of ever-married women age 15-49 read a newspaper at least once a week, 50.6% watch television at least weekly, and 3.7% listen to the radio on a weekly basis. Step 5: Scan the last four rows highlighted in grey in Example 1. While the 2017-18 PDHS collected data in Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan, those data are not included in the national total or the background characteristics. The data for these regions are presented separately in the last four rows. For more information on sampling, see Example 3. Step 6: To find out what percentage of ever-married women with higher education watch television at least once a week, draw two imaginary lines, as shown on the table. This shows that 78.9% of