children start developing their own immunity over a period of time. The Government of Pakistan recognises that children less than age 5 and pregnant women are high-risk groups and recommends that they be protected by sleeping under ITNs. The government has recently been attempting to provide ITNs under the malaria control programme, especially in highprevalence areas. Just 2% each of children under age 5 and pregnant women slept under any net the night before the survey (Tables 12.7 and 12.8). In households with at least one ITN, only 8% each of children and pregnant women slept under an ITN. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Use of ITNs by children under age 5 in households with at least one ITN is highest in Sindh (20%). ▪ Pregnant women in the lowest wealth quintile (6%) are more likely than those in the highest quintile (2%) to have used any mosquito net the night before the survey. 12.4 USE OF ANTIMALARIAL DRUGS Prompt and effective treatment for malaria is crucial to prevent the disease from becoming severe and complicated. Plasmodium vivax and Plasmodium falciparum are the two prevalent species of parasites detected in the country. Since 2007, the first line of treatment for uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria has been artesunate combined with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (AS+SP). Oral quinine was recommended as the second-line treatment in 2005 but was replaced by artemether and lumefantrine (AL) in 2013 (Government of Pakistan 2017b). The 2017-18 PDHS showed that 38% of children under age 5 year had a fever during the 2 weeks preceding the survey and that advice or treatment was sought for 81% of these children.1 Eighty-four percent of children with a fever for whom advice or treatment was sought were taken to a private sector health facility, while 17% were taken to a public sector facility (Table 12.9). Among those for whom advice or treatment was sought, about 9% received antimalarial drugs for treatment (data not shown). Table 12.10 presents information on the types of antimalarial drugs given to children with a fever and the proportion who took specific antimalarial drugs in the 2 weeks preceding the survey after the onset of the illness. In interpreting the data, it is important to remember that the information is based on reports from mothers of ill children who may not have known the specific drug given to their child. The 2017-18 PDHS fieldwork was carried out from October