professional contributions of and assistance by the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) at different stages of the survey are greatly appreciated. Special appreciation and congratulations are extended to the PDHS core team for their untiring efforts, dedication, and determination, which led to the generation and compilation of accurate and reliable data. I appreciate how Dr. Mukhtar Ahmed and Mr. Pervaiz Ahmed Junejo, former executive directors of the Institute, initiated and conducted the project, and created an environment for team work at NIPS. They brought together health and population experts from all over the country and steered the implementation of the project as a consultative process. On behalf of NIPS and the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination (NHSRC), I thank the United States Agency for International Development for providing financial support through ICF, the Department for International Development (DFID), and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). I would like to express gratitude to all governmental and nongovernmental organisations for extending the required support for the 2017-18 PDHS. Khizar Hayat Khan Executive Director National Institute of Population Studies, Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination, Government of Pakistan Islamabad T Acknowledgements • xix ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS he 2017-18 Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) is the result of the ceaseless efforts of individuals and organisations. The survey was conducted under the aegis of the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination, and implemented by the National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS). The United States Agency for International Development provided financial support through ICF. The United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and Department for International Development (DFID) provided logistic support for monitoring the fieldwork of the survey. The Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (PBS) provided assistance in the selection of the sample and household listing for the sampled primary sampling units. Technical assistance for the survey was provided by ICF. NIPS is highly indebted to all of these agencies. The NIPS core team expresses our deep sense of appreciation to the technical experts in the fields of population and health for their valuable contributions during various phases of the survey, including the finalisation of questionnaires, reviewing the preliminary results, and providing valuable comments and finalising the report. The guidance provided by the Technical Advisory Committee is highly appreciated. The fieldwork of the survey spanned a 6-month period during which the entire staff of NIPS and the fieldwork force worked relentlessly with devotion and