sex, while distinguishing children, unemployed persons, older persons, persons with disabilities, pregnant women, newborns, victims of work injuries, the poor, and the vulnerable. 41 Planning Commission, Ministry of Planning, Development & Reform, Summary for the National Economic Council (NEC): Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) National Framework, March 2018, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad, 2018. The Government of Pakistan has used different techniques to measure poverty, including ‘food and energy intake’, the ‘cost of basic needs’, and most recently the Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) in 2015 which focuses on three dimensions: health, education and living standards (see the 2017 Situation Analysis Report for a detailed discussion of the MPI).42 As COVID-19 stands to influence all of the dimensions of multidimensional poverty in different ways, data from the 2015 MPI is no longer sufficient for identifying vulnerable segments of the population. Here, the analysis is informed by recent estimates43 of how the vulnerability of Pakistan’s population will be affected by the pandemic. For the first time in Pakistan, UNDP has formulated a COVID-19 Responsive Multidimensional Vulnerability Index (CRMVI) based on dimensions and indicators related to education, health, living standards, employment, land and livestock, and modes of communication. In light of Pakistan’s overall MPI value of 0.197 in 2015, the socio-economic vulnerability of poor households is projected to increase due to health emergencies such as the COVID-19 pandemic, resulting in a CRMVI value of 0.264. This means that 56.6 percent of the population – roughly 126 million people – may fall into the category of ‘vulnerable’ persons. The greatest contributors to vulnerability are: having less than five years of schooling, earning less than the minimum wage, dependency ratios, the ownership of livestock, and overcrowding. An estimated 92 million people in rural areas and 32 million people in urban areas are susceptible to becoming multi-dimensionally vulnerable as a result of COVID-19.44 Sindh and Punjab are projected to experience the highest increase in multidimensional vulnerability given their high population density. Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa may experience a lower increase in the vulnerable population, despite their higher MPI and CRMVI values. Similarly, stark projections are offered by the World Bank, which predicts that the pandemic will cause Pakistan’s national poverty ratio of 31.3 percent, as recorded in June 2018 (69 million people), to jump sharply to over 40 percent by June 2020 (87 million).45 The routine measurement of child poverty is a requirement of SDG reporting, and a