University and Government of Pakistan. A Situational Analysis on Stillbirths, Newborn Deaths and Small and Sick Newborn Care. Findings from Pakistan 2019. 85 National Institute of Population Studies, Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) 2012–13, NIPS, Islamabad, 2013. 86 National Institute of Population Studies, Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) 2017–18, NIPS, Islamabad, 2018. Regional data sheds further light on these trends. In Punjab, for example, diarrhoea is most prevalent seen among children between 36 and 47 months old.87 While treatment from a health facility or provider is sought for 65.7 percent of children under-five with diarrhoea, only 34.6 percent of cases are treated with ORS and 12.8 percent with both ORS and zinc. In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, diarrhoea is most prevalent among children between 12 and 23 months old – that is, during the weaning period.88 Overall, a health facility or provider was consulted on diarrhoea among children in only half (51 percent) of such cases. Care-seeking to treat diarrhoea is highest in the district of Dera Ismail Khan (60 percent) in the province, and lowest in the district of Malakand (42 percent). Overall in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, 32 percent of children with diarrhoea received ORS, while 7 percent received both ORS and zinc. The treatment of diarrhoea is more prevalent in urban parts of the province (43 percent) than in rural areas (37 percent). This is also true for acute respiratory infections, with more children under-five in urban areas receiving treatment (70 percent) than in rural settings (57 percent). The data also reveals a positive relation between a mother’s level of education and health care-seeking behaviour, as well as between household wealth and treatment for childhood illnesses. For instance, health facilities or providers were consulted in 51 percent cases when children aged 0 to 59 months had diarrhoea in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, with levels ranging from 48 percent when mothers only had a primary education, to 62 percent when mothers had a higher level of education. Encouraging trends are evident in terms of child illnesses in the latest PDHS. Advice and treatment is sought for a roughly equal proportion of boys (84.6 percent) and girls (84.4 percent) suffering from diarrhoea, fever and acute respiratory infections. Regional disparities persist, however, and treatment lags behind for children in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s Merged Districts and Balochistan. This appears linked to the underlying causes of low levels of development in these regions, high poverty rates and