has improved since 2011, when food insecurity affected 58.1 percent of its households. However, severely insecure households afflicted by hunger have nearly doubled from 9.8 percent in 2011. Pakistan ranking on the Global Hunger Index has improved – rising to 94th of 117 countries in 2019 compared to 106th in 2017 – and the proportion of the population that is undernourished declined to 20.3 percent in 2019, down from 21.1 percent in 2010. Balochistan and Sindh have highest percentage of people affected by severe food insecurity – 35.3 percent and 26 percent, respectively. Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 46 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 47 NUTRITION SERVICES Structural factors that contribute to poor nutritional indicators include limited coverage of nutrition services; difficulties in tracking public expenditure on nutrition through financial reporting systems; inadequate systems for monitoring and evaluation; and delays in the implementation of provincial multi-sectoral nutrition strategies. To date, most nutrition initiatives in Pakistan have focused on treating acutely malnourished children, which alleviates the symptoms of malnutrition without addressing its root causes. Pakistan clearly needs strong institutional mechanisms and capacities, particularly at the sub-national levels. It requires greater ownership of nutrition interventions at the district level, and a greater focus on preventing malnutrition by tackling its root causes. One of the key barriers is the project-based approach to nutrition within MoH – and thus lack of full integration into the health system. The nutrition sector receives relatively small, short term and unpredictable budgetary allocations, making it heavily dependent on donors. Public sector interventions tend to be oriented towards treatment, rather than prevention. A lack of investment in nutrition overall means a lack of investment in building the capacity of stakeholders and trained professionals involved in nutrition interventions. Thus, not only are nutrition initiatives few and far between, they also do not focus sufficiently on strengthening capacity and improving quality in a cost-effective manner – such by as taking a preventive, rather than curative, approach to malnutrition and undernutrition. Improving adolescents’ nutrition, moreover, is not prioritized in government planning and programing. Although, Pakistan has a strategy on adolescent nutrition, maternal and adolescent nutrition represents the weak link of the lifecycle approach as implemented in Pakistan. NEONATAL, INFANT AND CHILD MORTALITY SDG target 3.2 aims to end preventable deaths among newborns and children under five years old. The global