another country. ▪ The proportion of in-migrants migrating in from a city increases with increasing education, from 28% among those with no education to 49% among those with a higher education. 17.1.4 Direction of In-migration The direction of population movement is assessed through two commonly used measures: interand intraregional migration and rural-urban population movement. 330 • Migration Interand intra-regional migration Figure 17.1 shows the percentage of in-migrants living in the region of their birth by region of current residence. Three-quarters of inmigrants live within the region of their birth. The remaining onequarter now reside in a region other than their region of birth. It is worth noting that intra-regional migration was 53% in the 1998 census (Karim and Nasar 2003). Table 17.2 presents the distribution of in-migrants by their place of birth according to region of current residence. Patterns of movement by place of birth ▪ Sixty-six percent of in-migrants were born in Punjab, and the vast majority of in-migration in Punjab is accounted for by residents of that region (89%). People born in Sindh or Khyber Pakhtunkhwa account for most of the remainder of in-migration to Punjab. ▪ Over half of in-migrants in ICT Islamabad (58%), 43% in Azad Jammu and Kashmir, and 26% in Sindh were born in Punjab. ▪ People born in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa account for the majority of in-migration in FATA (62%). Table 17.3 shows the distribution of in-migrants by place of current residence according to their place of birth. Patterns of movement by place of current residence ▪ The most likely inter-regional destination among people born in Punjab is Sindh (7%), while, conversely, the most likely destination among people born in Sindh is Punjab (21%). ▪ People born in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are most likely to migrate to Punjab (22%). ▪ The most likely inter-regional destinations among people born in Balochistan are Sindh (31%) and Punjab (19%). ▪ The most likely inter-regional destination among people born in FATA is Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (86%), and the most likely destination among those born in Azad Jammu and Kashmir is Punjab (66%). Rural-urban in-migration Rural-urban migration is a common phenomenon in developing countries, including Pakistan. The four possible directions of such moves are rural to rural, rural to urban, urban to urban, and urban to rural. Table 17.4 presents data on these moves, at the national level as well as for regional level, according to inmigrants’ most recent move. Overall,