husband (if currently married) or most recent husband (if formerly married), ever and in the 12 months preceding the survey. Sample: Ever-married women age 15-49 16.6.1 Prevalence of Spousal Violence Recent experience of spousal violence is an indicator of the extent to which domestic violence is a current problem. Fifteen percent of women have experienced any form of physical or sexual violence in the past 12 months. The most common type of spousal violence women have ever experienced is emotional violence (26%), followed by physical violence (23%) and sexual violence (5%). Women who have been married more than once were also asked about spousal violence committed by any husband. Thirty-four percent of ever-married women have experienced emotional, physical, or sexual violence committed by any husband, with 25% having experienced violence in the past 12 months (Table 16.9). 308 • Domestic Violence Women experiencing spousal violence most often reported that their husband slapped them (20%); 14% of women reported that their husband pushed, shook, or threw something at them. Ten percent of women reported that their husband twisted their arm or pulled their hair; 7% said that their husband punched them with his fist or something that could hurt them; 5% said that their husband kicked, dragged, or beat them up; and 2% reported that their husband tried to choke or burn them on purpose (Figure 16.3 and Table 16.9). With respect to sexual violence, women most often reported being physically forced to have sexual intercourse with their husband when they did not want to (5%); 1% each said that their husband physically forced them to perform other sexual acts they did not want to and forced them with threats or in any other way to perform sexual acts they did not want to. Women experiencing emotional violence were most likely to report that their husband said or did something to humiliate them in front of others (22%), followed by their husband insulting them or making them feel bad about themselves (21%). Four percent of women reported that their husband threatened to hurt or harm them or someone they cared about. Trends: Ever-married women’s experience of spousal physical violence declined from 27% in 2012-13 to 23% in 2017-18. Similarly, their experience of spousal emotional violence declined from 32% to 26% during the same time period. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Women age 30-49 (36%) are more likely than women age 20-24