national level, for urban and rural areas, and within the country’s eight regions ▪ Direct and indirect factors that determine levels and trends of fertility and child mortality ▪ Contraceptive knowledge and practice ▪ Maternal health and care including antenatal, perinatal, and postnatal care ▪ Child feeding practices, including breastfeeding, and anthropometric measures to assess the nutritional status of children under age 5 and women age 15-49 ▪ Key aspects of family health, including vaccination coverage and prevalence of diseases among infants and children under age 5 ▪ Knowledge and attitudes of women and men about sexually transmitted infections (STIs), including HIV/AIDS, and potential exposure to risk ▪ Women's empowerment and its relationship to reproductive health and family planning ▪ Disability level ▪ Extent of gender-based violence ▪ Migration patterns The information collected through the 2017-18 PDHS is intended to assist policymakers and program managers at the federal and provincial government levels, in the private sector, and at international organisations in evaluating and designing programs and strategies for improving the health of the country’s T 2 • Introduction and Survey Methodology population. The data also provides information on indicators relevant to the Sustainable Development Goals. 1.2 SAMPLE DESIGN The sampling frame used for the 2017-18 PDHS is a complete list of enumeration blocks (EBs) created for the Pakistan Population and Housing Census 2017, which was conducted from March to May 2017. The Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (PBS) supported the sample design of the survey and worked in close coordination with NIPS. The 2017-18 PDHS represents the population of Pakistan including Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) and the former Federally Administrated Tribal Areas (FATA), which were not included in the 2012-13 PDHS1. The results of the 2017-18 PDHS are representative at the national level and for the urban and rural areas separately. The survey estimates are also representative for the four provinces of Punjab, Sindh, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and Balochistan; for two regions including AJK and Gilgit Baltistan (GB); for Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT); and for FATA. In total, there are 13 secondlevel survey domains. The 2017-18 PDHS followed a stratified two-stage sample design. The stratification was achieved by separating each of the eight regions into urban and rural areas. In total, 16 sampling strata were created. Samples were selected independently in every stratum through a two-stage selection process. Implicit stratification and proportional allocation were achieved at each of the lower administrative