frequency of water borne diseases (diarrhea and cholera), and vector borne diseases (malaria and dengue fever). Extreme weather events which include food insecurity, under-nutrition, as well as impacts on WASH. In 2015, WHO developed the framework for building climate resilient health systems, with the objective to provide guidance for health system and public health programming to increase capacity for protecting health in a changing climate environment. Although, some data has been collated regionally to analyse the impacts of climate change on children (Bangladesh Health-National Adaptation Plan HNAP; 2018), such data could be found to analyse the impacts of climate change on children in Pakistan in terms of increase in the frequency of diarrhea, malaria, or dengue. Rising temperatures, fluctuating rates of precipitation and prolonged drought compromise freshwater supplies, increasing the risk of waterborne diseases, diarrhoeal diseases, infections and vector-borne diseases that impair children’s early development,207 while driving up the particular risk of heat-related mortality among children.208 Children are at greater risk of injury and especially susceptible to disease when continuity in water and sanitation services are threatened. WASH and climate change are inextricably linked. Disasters can destroy water supplies and toilet, or leaving behind contaminated water and putting the lives of millions of children at risk. Sewage systems are at risk of being flooded with increasing frequency, contaminating water sources and the local environment, while severe droughts force people to resort to even less safe sources of drinking water. Increase in equitable access to sustainable water sources and improved sanitation is critical in regions at risk of droughts and floods. Country and community level WASH hazards should be identified to develop an adaptive action into existing programmes. Women around the world are more likely to experience poverty, especially in countries like Pakistan where HDI and GDI values are consistently low. This makes it especially difficult for women to recover from disasters which affect infrastructure, jobs and housing. Climate changeinduced injustices and protection issues greatly affect girls’ rights. In and after disasters, girls tend to be the first to drop out of school to take on more caregiving roles in the home. Girls are often married off at a much younger age than boys in households from the lowest wealth quintile, as a means of reducing the financial burdens that disasters cause. During and after disasters, women – especially adolescent girls – face an increased risk of sexual and physical violence,