a timely and efficient manner. Prioritize financial resources for emergency preparedness and implement emergency preparedness actions by strengthening intersectoral collaboration with government sectors, the private sector and civil society at the provincial level. ƒƒ Make concerted efforts to collect and analyse data on preand intra-COVID-19 trends on vaccination rates, antenatal care visits and hospital deliveries, among other indicators. ƒƒ Deliver all immunization services and implement effective communication strategies to engage communities and ensure supply and demand for vaccination as it is essential to saving lives. Mass vaccination campaign should be undertaken after a risk-benefit assessment. ƒƒ Emphasize on the public health response to COVID with focus on RCCE, IPC, protection of health workers and continuation of essential MNCH, Immunization and HIV services. Findings Risks Recommendations ƒƒ One in eight adolescent girls and one in five adolescent boys is underweight. 56.6 per cent of adolescent girls in Pakistan are anaemic. Social-cultural barriers create bottlenecks that prevent young people from seeking support or services to meet their physical, mental, emotional and psychological needs. ƒƒ Public expenditure on health only accounts for 1.1 per cent of GDP, and development expenditure represents 13.7 per cent of total public expenditure. ƒƒ Urban-rural disparities suggest a lack of available health services, limited access to services due to difficult terrain and poor infrastructure, the poor quality of health services, and high rates of poverty in rural areas. ƒƒ The government has prioritized Universal Health Coverage and Basic Package (UHC/BP) of health services to reach the most vulnerable population. ƒƒ Government to develop investment plan and contribute for UHC/BP implementation within the framework of Primary Health Care Acceleration. ƒƒ Prioritize climate change and environmental health within the domain of public health system with effective cross sectoral collaboration. ƒƒ Develop national and provincial health department for health emergency and humanitarian response strategy and implementation. ƒƒ Strengthen interaction between public and private healthcare sector. Provision of private healthcare facilities with public financing can play a key role in provision of quality healthcare services to the poor and marginalized communities. Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 156 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 157 Findings Risks Recommendations Nutrition ƒƒ Two in every five children underfive in Pakistan are stunted, while 17.7 per cent suffer from wasting and 28.9 per cent are underweight. Nevertheless, improvements have been made on stunting and underweight