are those who migrated less than 6 years ago, and long-staying migrants last migrated 10 or more years ago. More than a quarter of in-migrants/immigrants (27%) are recent migrants, while more than half (57%) are long-staying migrants. Fourteen percent of migrants moved into their current residence 6-9 years prior to the survey. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ The share of recent migrants as a percentage of all in-migrants/immigrants is highest in FATA (75%), followed by Balochistan (44%), Gilgit Baltistan (42%), and ICT Islamabad (37%). ▪ There is a positive association between age and continuous duration of residence. For example, more than 80% of migrants above age 40 are long-staying migrants, as compared with 40% of migrants age 21-30. More than one-third of those age 21-30 are recent migrants. This is not surprising, as older people have longer periods of stay while younger people have a truncation effect on duration of migration. 17.1.3 Most Recent Place of Residence Prior to Current Residence In Table 17.1, a person is classified as most recently having migrated (or immigrated) from a city within Pakistan, from a rural area within Pakistan, or from an outside country. Ninety-six percent of in-migrants and immigrants most recently moved to their place of current residence from within Pakistan (either an urban or a rural area). Data from the first Pakistan census (carried out in 1951, 4 years after partition) show that 82% of migrants were born outside of Pakistan, a proportion that had declined to 23% by 1998. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ While in-migration is often thought of as being rural to urban migration, this is not always the case. Among people who migrated into urban areas, 39% came from other urban areas within Pakistan. Among people who migrated into rural areas, 31% came from urban areas. ▪ As one might expect, the percentage of individuals who are in-migrants or immigrants increases with age; the high percentage among people age 71 and above reflects the period of partition some 70 years ago. This is evident from the fact that 41% of those age 71 or above migrated from another country. ▪ The proportion of in-migrants migrating in from a city increases with increasing education, from 28% among those with no education to 49% among those with a higher education. 17.1.4 Direction of In-migration The direction of population movement is assessed through two commonly used measures: interand intraregional migration