the need for a greater focus on these issues, as well as for increased resource allocations. Public sector expenditure on the health and nutrition sector accounts for only 1.1 percent of Pakistan’s GDP.4 Two out of five children under the age of 5 suffer from moderate or severe stunting, 17.7 percent suffer from wasting, almost one in three children are underweight, and 53.7 4 Ministry of Finance, Pakistan Economic Survey 2019–20, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad, 2020 percent suffer from anaemia.5 Nearly half of Pakistan’s children are deficient in critical vitamins and minerals, more than one-third of households are food insecure, and with 18.3 percent of households are affected by severe food insecurity.6 Exclusive breastfeeding in the first six months of a child’s life has increased to 48 percent in 2018 from 37.6 percent in 2011, while age -appropriate complementary feed alongside breastmilk for infants after 6 months of age was 35.9 percent. Nevertheless, minimum dietary diversity, minimum meal frequency and minimum acceptable diets are below acceptable levels. One in eight adolescent girls and one in five adolescent boys is underweight. 56.6 percent of adolescent girls in Pakistan are anaemic.7 Factors that contribute to poor nutritional indicators include inadequate systems for monitoring and evaluation; difficulties in tracking public expenditure on nutrition through financial reporting systems; and delays in the implementation of provincial multi-sectoral nutrition strategies. Child mortality rates have declined, reflecting important improvements in child survival. Pakistan’s neonatal mortality rate (NMR) fell to 42 deaths for every 1,000 live births,8 the infant mortality rate (IMR) to 62 per 1,000 live births, and under-five mortality rate (U5MR) to 74 per 1,000 live births. Despite this, one in every 14 Pakistani children does not survive to his or her fifth birthday. Improvements are apparent in maternal health, as the maternal mortality rate (MMR) fell to 178 maternal deaths for every 100,000 live births,9 and other key indicators improved – including the provision of antenatal care by skilled providers and skilled birth attendants assisting deliveries.10 Inequity across geographic (urban/rural) location and wealth quintile and the poor quality of care in the perinatal period contributes to high rates of still birth, neonatal deaths and maternal deaths. UNICEF is working with government counterparts and other partners to address both fronts through its current country programme. Immunization has witnessed considerable improvement, as two-thirds of children between 12 and 23 months old have received all eight basic vaccinations.11