and sand are the most commonly used in rural households (51%), and cement is most common in urban households (50%). 2.4 HOUSEHOLD WEALTH 2.4.1 Household Durable Goods The survey also collected information on household effects, means of transportation, and ownership of agricultural land and farm animals (Table 2.5). Mobile phones and televisions are the most common information and communication devices used in Pakistan, and almost all households (94%) have at least one mobile phone. In addition to mobile phones, 6% of households also have landline phones (11% in urban areas and 3% in rural areas). About two in three households (63%) in Pakistan own a television, although urban households are more likely than rural households to own a television (86% versus 48%). Five percent of urban and 7% of rural households own a radio. Rural households are more likely to own agricultural land than urban households (38% versus 11%). As expected, ownership of farm animals is much more common in rural households (62%) than in urban households (13%). Wealth index Households are given scores based on the number and kinds of consumer goods they own, ranging from a television to a bicycle or car, and housing characteristics such as source of drinking water, toilet facilities, and flooring materials. These scores are derived using principal component analysis. National wealth quintiles are compiled by assigning the household score to each usual (de jure) household member, ranking each person in the household population by their score, and then dividing the distribution into five equal categories, each with 20% of the population. Sample: Households Table 2.6 presents data on wealth quintiles and the Gini coefficient according to residence, region, and province. The Gini coefficient indicates the level of concentration of wealth, with 0 representing an equal wealth distribution and 1 representing a totally unequal distribution. Pakistan’s Gini coefficient is 0.27, indicating a relatively uneven distribution of wealth in the population. 12 • Housing Characteristics and Household Population The wealthiest households are concentrated in urban areas (42%), whereas in rural areas over half of the population (57%) falls in the two lowest wealth quintiles. (Figure 2.3). A majority of the households in ICT are concentrated in the highest wealth quintile (57%). About 51% of FATA households are in the poorest wealth quintile (Table 2.6). 2.5 HAND WASHING Hand washing is one of the most effective ways to prevent germs from spreading. A place for hand