ages at death. Potential data quality problems include: ▪ The selective omission from the birth histories of those births that did not survive, which can result in underestimation of childhood mortality. I 146 • Infant and Child Mortality ▪ The displacement of birth dates, which may distort mortality trends. This can occur if an interviewer knowingly records a birth as occurring in a different year than the one in which it occurred. This may happen if an interviewer is trying to lessen the work load, because live births occurring during the 5 years before the interview are the subject of a lengthy set of additional questions. ▪ The quality of reporting of age at death. Misreporting the child’s age at death may distort the age pattern of mortality, especially if the net effect of the age misreporting is to transfer deaths from one age bracket to another. ▪ Any method of measuring childhood mortality that relies on the mothers’ reports (for example, birth histories) assumes that female adult mortality is not high, or if it is high, that there is little or no correlation between the mortality risks of the mothers and those of their children. Selected indicators of the quality of the mortality data on which the estimates of mortality in this chapter are based are presented in Appendix C, Tables C.4.1–C.6.3. 8.1 INFANT AND CHILD MORTALITY Neonatal mortality: The probability of dying within the first month of life. Postneonatal mortality: The probability of dying between the first month of life and the first birthday (computed as the difference between infant and neonatal mortality). Infant mortality: The probability of dying between birth and the first birthday. Child mortality: The probability of dying between the first and fifth birthday. Under-5 mortality: The probability of dying between birth and the fifth birthday. In the 5-year period preceding the survey, neonatal mortality was 42 deaths per 1,000 live births, infant mortality was 62 deaths per 1,000 live births, and under-5 mortality was 74 deaths per 1,000 live births. These rates imply that nearly one in 16 children die before reaching their first birthday and one in 14 die before reaching their fifth birthday (Table 8.1). Trends: All three indicators of childhood mortality have declined sharply over the past 3 decades (Figure 8.1). Under-5 mortality declined from 112 deaths per 1,000 live births in 1990-91 to 74 deaths per 1,000 live births in