all three is safe water free from contamination i.e. 35 per cent, which is the baseline for safely managed water in Pakistan in 2018. ƒƒ Only 7 per cent of households follow appropriate water treatment practices prior to drinking water. ƒƒ 60 per cent of the population in Pakistan have basic sanitation, 10 per cent with limited service, 20 per cent fall under unimproved and around 10 per cent practice open defecation (without any toilets). ƒƒ The lockdown is likely to exacerbate WASH challenges in Pakistan, especially as 10 per cent of its population already practices open defecation. ƒƒ Funds earmarked for WASH development activities may be diverted towards managing COVID-19, as interventions on COVID-19 predominantly target health care facilities, isolation centres, quarantine sites and at-risk communities. ƒƒ Strengthen public awareness raising campaigns to explain how COVID-19 spreads and how WASH can help to prevent this. ƒƒ Safe WASH services in health care facilities (HCFs) to deliver quality health services; protect patients, health workers, and staff; and to prevent further transmission. ƒƒ Scale up the WASH intervention in schools and hand washing initiatives for safe re-opening of schools after lockdown is lifted. ƒƒ Integrate climate resilience and WASH as integral components of future interventions. Findings Risks Recommendations ƒƒ Half of the rural population in Pakistan use basic sanitation services compared to 77 per cent in urban areas. ƒƒ Only 16 per cent of poor have basic sanitation services, while 63 per cent practice open defecation compared to 90 per cent of the richest with basic sanitation service and zero open defecation practice. ƒƒ 73 per cent of primary schools in Pakistan have drinking water availability, this increases with the level of education as middle, secondary and higher secondary level schools have 85 per cent, 92 per cent, and 97 per cent availability of drinking water. ƒƒ Availability of toilets for students is in 73 per cent of primary schools, 88 per cent of middle schools, 93 per cent of secondary schools and 97 per cent in higher secondary schools. ƒƒ Awareness around water use, safety, maintenance and conservation is generally lacking in Pakistan and water which appears clean is considered to be safe. The notion that water is free and infinite resource leads to no accountability on the part of its users. ƒƒ In poverty stricken rural areas, open defecation is a cultural norm and accepted social behaviour. ƒƒ Public