15-49 only. 13 Measured as the percentage of the population using clean fuel for cooking 14 Data are available for women and men age 15-49 who have and use an account at bank or other financial institution; information on use of a mobile-money-service provider is not available. 15 Data are available for women and men age 15-49 who have used the internet in the past 12 months. a The total is calculated as the simple arithmetic mean of the percentages in the columns for males and females. xxxviii • Map of Pakistan Introduction and Survey Methodology • 1 INTRODUCTION AND SURVEY METHODOLOGY 1 he 2017-18 Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) was implemented by the National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS) under the aegis of the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination. This PDHS is the fourth to be conducted in Pakistan and follows surveys in 1990-91, 2006-07, and 2012-13. Data collection took place from 22 November 2017 to 30 April 2018. ICF provided technical assistance through The DHS Program, which is funded by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and offers financial support and technical assistance for population and health surveys in countries worldwide. Support for the survey was also provided by the Department for International Development (DFID) of the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). According to the Population Census of 2017, the total population of Pakistan is 207 million with a growth rate of 2.4% (Government of Pakistan 2017). The size of the population and the growth rate present serious challenges to governmental efforts to prevent food insecurity, water scarcity, rapid urbanisation, inadequate housing, and loss of economic opportunities. Such challenges necessitate regular assessment of their demographic impact through collection of reliable data in surveys such as the PDHS. 1.1 SURVEY OBJECTIVES The primary objective of the 2017-18 PDHS is to provide up-to-date estimates of basic demographic and health indicators. The PDHS provides a comprehensive overview of population, maternal, and child health issues in Pakistan. Specifically, the 2017-18 PDHS collected information on: ▪ Key demographic indicators, particularly fertility and under-5 mortality rates, at the national level, for urban and rural areas, and within the country’s eight regions ▪ Direct and indirect factors that determine levels and trends of fertility and child mortality ▪ Contraceptive knowledge and practice ▪ Maternal health and care including antenatal, perinatal, and postnatal care ▪ Child feeding practices, including breastfeeding,