the One UN Programme III (OP III). Climate change is also a driver of food insecurity. As climate-related catastrophes become ever more frequent and severe, food insecurity in the wake of emergencies has become a repeated pattern in Pakistan – evident in the rapid emergence of cases of malnutrition. As discussed, malnutrition is a major challenge among children and women in Pakistan and a major impediment to achieving the SDGs. In Sindh, where over 1.2 million people live in conditions of severe drought (2018–2019), acute malnutrition affects around 0.4 million children under-five.209 Women are socially conditioned to refrain from claiming from limited family resources and have a limited role in decision-making on the distribution of these resources. As climate change deals a blow to agriculture, informal women workers – the bulk of the country’s agricultural workforce – stand to lose most and receive the least support since they are usually ineligible for compensation schemes that target formal workers. Since women are predominantly responsible for livestock management, the loss of livestock due to disasters diminishes their incomes, food security and nutrition. With dry seasons becoming more prolonged due to climate change, rural women in Pakistan are forced to work harder to feed and support their families. Pakistan submitted its first National Determined Contribution (NDC) to the Climate Conventions (UNFCCC), which articulates Pakistan’s goals, commitments, and aspirations to achieve the Paris Agreement. Under the adaptation commitments, Pakistan has stated that WASH and water management are national adaptation priorities enhancing water resource management through integrated watershed management, water conservation, development and optimization of water resource allocation, implementation of strict water management regulations, and utilization of unconventional water resources such as recycling of used water and harvesting rain water and flood water. In the same category, education has been highlighted as an area where support is required to develop a multitude of professionals in the field of climate change through strengthened educational opportunities for individuals in the disciplines of geo-sciences, social sciences, management sciences, governance, policy formation and implementation. The Government of Pakistan has put in place policy and institutional mechanisms to guide a national response to climate change. A National Climate Change Policy (NCCP) was developed in 2012, followed by an implementation framework in 2014. In 2017, MoCC was created and the Pakistan Climate Change Act passed to strengthen institutional capacity at the federal level. The act calls for the creation of three