= where r is the estimate computed from the full sample of 561 clusters, r(i) is the estimate computed from the reduced sample of 560 clusters (ith cluster excluded), and k is the total number of clusters. In addition to the standard error, the design effect (DEFT) for each estimate is also calculated. The design effect is defined as the ratio between the standard error using the given sample design and the standard error that would result if a simple random sample had been used. A DEFT value of 1.0 indicates that the sample design is as efficient as a simple random sample, while a value greater than 1.0 indicates the increase in the sampling error due to the use of a more complex and less statistically efficient design. Relative standard errors and confidence limits for the estimates are also calculated. Sampling errors for the 2017-18 PDHS are calculated for selected variables considered to be of primary interest. The results are presented in this appendix for Pakistan, excluding Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan, for its urban and rural areas, for each of its six regions, and separately for Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan. For each variable, the type of statistic (mean, proportion, or rate) and the base population are given in Table B.1. Tables B.2 through B.22 present the value of the statistic (R), its standard error (SE), the number of unweighted (N) and weighted (WN) cases, the design effect (DEFT), the relative standard error (SE/R), and the 95% confidence limits (R±2SE), for each variable. The sampling errors for mortality rates are presented for the 5-year period preceding the survey for the national sample and the urban and rural samples, and for the 10-year period preceding the survey at other domain levels. The DEFT is considered undefined when the standard error considering a simple random sample is zero (when the estimate is close to 0 or 1). The confidence interval (for example, as calculated for ideal number of children) can be interpreted as follows: the overall average ideal number of children for all interviewed women age 15-49 from the national sample is 3.916, and its standard error is 0.052. Therefore, to obtain the 95% confidence limits, one adds and subtracts twice the standard error to the sample estimate, that is, 3.916±2×0.052. There is high probability (95%) that the true average ideal number of children for all