girls to school. The absence of menstrual hygiene management (MHM) facilities, or information on MHM practices is sorely needed to enhance girls’ enrolment, attendance and retention. There is limited participation of religious leaders, media, youth and celebrities in awareness on WASH. The perspective and requirements of WASH financial investment have changed with Pakistan’s endorsements for indicators of safely-managed drinking water and sanitation under SDGs. It is estimated at PKR 450 billion annually to meet SDG targets by 2030. WASH SYSTEMS AND DELIVERY Ministry of Climate Change (MoCC) at federal level is responsible for policy formulation, standards settings, reporting and coordination for regional and international commitments for drinking water and sanitation. In the provinces, local government and public health engineering departments are leading on the identification, planning, implementation and monitoring of drinking water and sanitation initiatives. However, there are multiple layers and ambiguities in the role of key departments in the service delivery and O&M at the provincial and district levels. The prime responsibility for service provision lies with elected local councils and local government department, however, in practice, the provincial departments are playing a leading role in resource allocations, project identification and service delivery including O&M of large schemes. The operation and maintenance of water supply and sanitation schemes is assigned to local councils in urban areas, while this responsibility in rural areas is entrusted to local community groups organized as community based organizations in majority of the provinces. In short, the service delivery for water and sanitation in Pakistan involves numerous actors working for a common goal but apparently in different directions. There is a need of providing further clarity and facilitation in development of guidelines for local councils for WASH services so informed capacities are added and developed at appropriate levels. Social mobilization through engagement of local community based organizations has been partially successful to the extent of ending open defecation and limited component sharing but has not yet resulted in creating safely managed sanitation services across the country. In October 2018, the Government launched the Clean and Green Pakistan Movement, in part to create an enabling environment for water and sanitation, including institutional strengthening for effective service delivery, and behavioural change to ensure the sustainability and continuity of available, accessible safe water and sanitation. MoCC also created a Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) Strategic Unit in the same year. The Clean Green Pakistan Movement has strongly emphasized