accessed 22 June 2020. Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 14 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 15 impacted. The unprecedented crisis will wreak a heavy toll on the poorest and most vulnerable. In Pakistan, impoverished, vulnerable workers will likely see their sources of income and basic needs disrupted. The devastating long-term impacts of COVID-19 will be felt and seen more keenly among children and women in the poorest segments of society. COVID-19 has influenced all domains of multidimensional poverty – intensifying its incidence and intensity. As a result of the pandemic, 56.6 percent of Pakistan’s population has become susceptible to becoming multidimensionally vulnerable, with an estimated 126 million people likely to be pushed into multidimensional poverty.21 Pakistan’s already fragile health system will struggle to maintain the delivery of essential health services, particularly vital reproductive, maternal, newborn and child health services. There may be more budget allocations on health, however, these are more focused on clinical response to COVID-19 rather than Public Health Response. Pakistan’s most food insecure households, who belong to the country’s lowest economic strata, will suffer the most from increased food insecurity. Interruptions in food and nutrition services will negatively impact the groups with the highest nutrition needs, especially children under-five, pregnant and lactating women, and the elderly. Nationwide school closures have affected 42 million learners in the country putting school children, especially girls, at high risk of not returning to schools when they reopen. Closures are poised to widen learning inequalities and disproportionately harm vulnerable children and youths. Restrictions on 21 United Nations Development Programme, Multidimensional Vulnerability Index, UNDP, Islamabad, 2020. girls’ value and roles. Women’s participation in the labour market is extremely low and is decreasing with the passage of time. Pakistan’s national poverty alleviation programme, Ehsaas (literally ‘compassion’) was launched in 2019. It aims to expand social protection, safety nets and to support human capital development across the country. With the broad mandate of bringing all public poverty alleviation programmes under one umbrella, Ehsaas complements and expands on ongoing social protection initiatives. In the context of COVID-19, the programme has initiated emergency cash transfers with the aim of providing relief to 12 million poor households. Despite the proven impacts of social protection programmes, coverage of children and families remains generally low and there is insufficient data about children who have access to social protection.