Full Terms & Conditions of access and use can be found at https://www.tandfonline.com/action/journalInformation?journalCode=zgha20 Global Health Action ISSN: (Print) (Online) Journal homepage: https://www.tandfonline.com/loi/zgha20 Effect of an integrated neonatal care kit on causespecific neonatal mortality in rural Pakistan Jessica Duby , Lisa G. Pell , Shabina Ariff , Amira Khan , Afsah Bhutta , Daniel S. Farrar , Diego G. Bassani , Masawar Hussain , Zulfiqar A. Bhutta , Sajid Soofi & Shaun K. Morris To cite this article: Jessica Duby , Lisa G. Pell , Shabina Ariff , Amira Khan , Afsah Bhutta , Daniel S. Farrar , Diego G. Bassani , Masawar Hussain , Zulfiqar A. Bhutta , Sajid Soofi & Shaun K. Morris (2020) Effect of an integrated neonatal care kit on cause-specific neonatal mortality in rural Pakistan, Global Health Action, 13:1, 1802952, DOI: 10.1080/16549716.2020.1802952 To link to this article: https://doi.org/10.1080/16549716.2020.1802952 © 2020 The Author(s). Published by Informa UK Limited, trading as Taylor & Francis Group. View supplementary material Published online: 25 Aug 2020. Submit your article to this journal View related articles View Crossmark data ORIGINAL ARTICLE Effect of an integrated neonatal care kit on cause-specific neonatal mortality in rural Pakistan Jessica Duby a, Lisa G. Pell b, Shabina Ariff c, Amira Khanb, Afsah Bhutta b, Daniel S. Farrar b, Diego G. Bassani b,d,e, Masawar Hussainc, Zulfiqar A. Bhuttab,c,d, Sajid Soofi c and Shaun K. Morris b,d,e,* aDepartment of Pediatrics, McGill University, Montreal, Canada; bCentre for Global Child Health, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Canada; cCenter of Excellence in Women and Child Health, The Aga Khan University, Karachi, Pakistan; dDalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada; eDepartment of Paediatrics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada ABSTRACT Background: In 2018, Pakistan had the world’s highest neonatal mortality rate. Within Pakistan, most neonatal deaths occur in rural areas where access to health facilities is limited, and robust vital registration systems are lacking. To improve newborn survival, there is a need to better understand the causes of neonatal death in high burden settings and engage caregivers in the promotion of newborn health. Objective: To describe the causes of neonatal death in a rural area in Pakistan and to estimate the effect of an integrated neonatal care kit (iNCK) on cause-specific neonatal mortality. Methods: We analyzed data from a community-based, cluster-randomized controlled trial of 5286 neonates in Rahim Yar Khan (RYK), Punjab, Pakistan between April 2014 and August