to a health facility 3 (8) 5 (11) – Home 19 (49) 19 (42) – aSkilled delivery attendants included doctors, nurses, midwives and Lady Health Visitors. Unskilled delivery attendants included traditional birth attendants and family members. bThe intervention group included 36 singletons, 1 twin pair and 1 twin whose sibling survived the neonatal period. The control group included 40 singletons, 2 twin pairs and 1 triplet whose siblings survived the neonatal period. cn = 27 and n = 28 in intervention and control group, respectively 6 J. DUBY ET AL. and congenital malformations), a similar trend was not observed. Discussion In Pakistan, 251,000 neonates died in 2017 with the highest numbers in low-income populations in rural areas [1,19]. Understanding the major causes of neonatal death is an important first step towards identifying effective interventions to improve neonatal survival. This study demonstrated that the three main causes of neonatal death in a community-based, rural research setting in RYK, Pakistan are similar to the leading causes of neonatal deaths worldwide. Infection, intrapartumrelated complications and prematurity/LBW accounted for 90% of all neonatal deaths in our study compared to 80% worldwide [7]. The interventions in the iNCK primarily targeted neonatal deaths due to infection through infection prevention measures and the early identification of danger signs, including fever and hypothermia. The use of clean birth kits has been shown to reduce the rate of all-cause neonatal mortality in low-income countries [20], and the application of chlorhexidine to the umbilical stump decreases the rate of ompha­ litis in low-income countries [21]. Sunflower emolli­ ent enhances the skin’s barrier function and has been shown to reduce the rate of hospital-acquired infec­ tions for premature infants [22]. In addition, as tem­ perature instability is a critical indicator of possible serious bacterial infection [23], the inclusion of a temperature-monitoring sticker enables families to detect and seek medical treatment for a possible infection. Indeed, in the iNCK trial, the risk of fever and the risk of omphalitis were significantly reduced in the intervention group compared to the control group although the overall risk of severe infection, defined using a composite of signs and symptoms, was not different between groups [11]. Some of the interventions in the iNCK also facili­ tated improved community-based care of premature and/or LBW infants. As part of the iNCK, LHWs were equipped with a hand-held scale to identify and refer LBW newborns to health facilities in