Rahim Yar Khan (RYK), Punjab, Pakistan estimated the effect of delivering an integrated Neonatal Care Kit (iNCK) to pregnant women during a routine third tri­ mester LHW visit on all-cause neonatal mortality [11,12]. LHWs taught women and families how to implement the iNCK, a simple package of evidence-based interventions, designed to improve neonatal health outcomes. The iNCK included a clean birth kit, 4% chlorhexidine, sun­ flower oil emollient, a temperature indicator sticker (ThermospotTM), a heat reflective polyester blanket and a reusable heat pack. In addition, LHWs in the interven­ tion clusters were provided with a hand-held scale to weigh each newborn (Figure 1). The provision of the iNCK reduced certain new­ born morbidities related to infection and facilitated vital preventative care for low birthweight (LBW) infants [11]. Specifically, there was a 32% and 36% reduction in the risk of omphalitis and fever in the intervention arm compared to the control arm, respectively. In addition, the identification of LBW infants by LHWs among home-delivered infants was more than 3 times higher in the intervention arm compared to the control arm. Finally, the iNCK enabled caregivers to identify and respond to new­ born hypothermia, a common complication among LBW and/or premature infants [11]. Despite the iNCK’s effect on the incidence and detection of clinical signs of neonatal infection and the identification of LBW infants, there was no sig­ nificant reduction in all-cause neonatal mortality, the trial’s primary outcome, in the iNCK group com­ pared to the control group [11]. However, it is plau­ sible that the use of the iNCK reduced the risk of neonatal mortality only due to the morbidities addressed by the iNCK, namely infection and com­ plications associated with being born LBW and/or prematurely. To investigate this possibility, we used VAs that were collected in the cRCT in RYK to estimate the effect of the iNCK compared to local standard of care on cause-specific neonatal mortality in RYK, Pakistan. Secondarily, we sought to provide an understanding of the underlying causes and con­ tributing factors to neonatal deaths in RYK, Pakistan to inform future, targeted interventions. Methods The study design, methods, and primary results of the iNCK cluster-randomized controlled trial in RYK, Pakistan have been previously reported [11,12]. In brief, a total of 150 clusters, defined as a village and its associated LHWs, were randomly assigned to receive either the iNCK (intervention) or local stan­ dard of care by LHWs