of questionnaires, reviewing the preliminary results, and providing valuable comments and finalising the report. The guidance provided by the Technical Advisory Committee is highly appreciated. The fieldwork of the survey spanned a 6-month period during which the entire staff of NIPS and the fieldwork force worked relentlessly with devotion and commitment. The efforts of the core team, including Ms. Azra Aziz, Director (Research and Survey); Mr. Ali Anwar Buriro and Ms. Rabia Zafar, Research Fellows; Dr. G. M. Arif, Principle Investigator; Mr. Zafar Zahir, Advisor of Operations; Mr. Moiz Agha, Office Coordinator; and Ms. Mehar Nisha, Research Associate, were instrumental in organizing a disciplined listing and training programme, dispatching questionnaires to the data collection teams, managing the completed questionnaires, and tracking their movement. I acknowledge the contribution of each one with appreciation. Monitoring the fieldwork of the survey was an arduous job also assigned to the core team members. Each one of them showed commitment and devotion, and I appreciate their contribution. The administrative and financial staff of NIPS made it possible to release funds on time and make logistic arrangements for the fieldwork. The support of Mr. Zafar Iqbal Niazi, Mr. Asif Amin Khan, and Mr. Hammad Ali Syed, and the financial management of Mr. Muhammad Arif, Accounts Officer, Mr. Shakeel Ahmad and Mr. Ali Asghar, Account Support, are appreciated. I am highly thankful to Ms. Anjushree Pradhan, Senior Technical Specialist at ICF, who was a source of inspiration and encouragement throughout the survey operation. I acknowledge, with deep gratitude and thanks, the relentless and committed efforts of Ms. Pradhan, who provided immense moral support and technical assistance at each stage of the project. I am thankful to Mr. Ruben Hume, Data Processing Consultant, Dr. Ruilin Ren, Senior Sampling Statistician, and the entire ICF team for their support. Special thanks go to Mr. Mohammad Ali Raza, Ms. Gulnaz Mushtaq, Mr. Qamar, Farman Ali, and the data entry operators for all work on data entry and processing. I appreciate and acknowledge the untiring efforts, interest, and dedication of Mr. Khizar Hayat (Executive Director) who encouraged and helped the core team put in their best effort and complete the survey on time. I express my gratitude for his sincere leadership and professional approach. Dr. Aysha Sheraz Senior Fellow Deputy Project Director, PDHS T 2017-18 Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey Technical Advisory Committee • xxi 2017-18 PAKISTAN DEMOGRAPHIC AND HEALTH SURVEY TECHNICAL