drains or unlined drains leading to nearby fields or pit/dry raised latrines. Similarly, latrines are not regularly cleaned especially in rural areas due to many reasons including lack of sufficient water, etc. There is need for necessary legislative reforms for water and sanitation especially regarding connection of latrines with appropriate systems that provides either on-site or off-site treatment options. 187 WHO & UNICEF, Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene, Estimates on the use of water, sanitation and hygiene in Pakistan, June 2019. Figure 15: Sanitation services estimates2019 Source: WHO/UNICEF JMP (2019) Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 122 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 123 At provincial level, data updated since 2017 is only available for Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. In Punjab, 80 percent of households use an improved sanitation facility which is not shared, as do 78 percent of those in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Open defecation remains a major challenge in both provinces, with 13 percent of Punjab’s households (54.4 percent of its poorest households) and 8.7 percent of those in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (35.5 percent of its poorest families) practicing open defecation. However, progress on ending open defecation appears to be gaining pace, improving by 12.3 percentage point in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and 4.5 percentage point in Punjab compared to the last MICS data for both provinces. A gender analysis of the use of sanitation facilities could not be conducted due to a lack of data. Handwashing facility was observed with 92.7 percent of households, while 68.6 percent of the households in which place for handwashing was observed had water and soap for hand washing.188 WASH IN SCHOOLS 73 percent of primary schools in Pakistan have drinking water availability, this increases with the level of education as middle, secondary and higher secondary level schools have 85 percent, 92 percent, and 97 percent availability of drinking water. Availability of toilets for students is in 73 percent of primary schools, 88 percent of middle schools, 93 percent of secondary schools and 97 percent in higher secondary schools.189 DEMAND ANALYSIS Awareness around water use, safety, maintenance and conservation is generally lacking in Pakistan and water which appears clean is considered to be safe. Additionally, the notion that water is free and infinite resource leads to no accountability on the part of its users and is due to the fact that water