exclusive breastfeeding, and 70% reported counselling on having a balanced diet. ▪ Protection against neonatal tetanus: 69% percent of the most recent births to women in the 5 years before the survey were protected against neonatal tetanus. ▪ Delivery: 69% of deliveries are conducted by skilled birth attendants, and 66% of deliveries take place in a health facility. ▪ Postnatal checks: Only 6 in 10 mothers and newborns received a postnatal care check within 2 days of delivery. ▪ Problems in accessing health care: Nearly 7 in 10 women reported at least one problem in accessing health care for themselves. ealth care services during pregnancy and childbirth as well as after delivery, are important for the survival and wellbeing of both mother and infant. Because Pakistan lagged in achieving the health-related Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), particularly Goals 4 and 5, the government adopted a comprehensive National Maternal, Neonatal, and Child Health Strategic Framework in April 2005. This framework provided the vision and guidelines to develop maternal, neonatal, and child health (MNCH) interventions. In 2007, the government launched the National MNCH Programme to accelerate progress on MDGs 4 and 5. The MNCH Programme focused on two major areas: (1) providing emergency obstetric services and community midwives, and (2) promoting institutional deliveries and skilled birth attendance (Technical Resource Facility 2013). Primary health care services were also extended through the lady health workers (LHWs), who provided MNCH services through home visits in rural areas. The LHWs contribute directly to improved hygiene and higher levels of contraceptive use, antenatal care, iron and folic acid supplementation during pregnancy, growth monitoring of children, and counselling for vaccination of mothers and children. Despite these efforts, the health-related targets of the MDGs were not completely achieved. Being a signatory of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 2015-2030, which would need even greater H 156 • Maternal Health Care efforts than those employed for the MDGs 2000-2015, the Government of Pakistan developed a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) mechanism for the National Health Vision 2016-2025. The resulting framework and plan is linked and coordinated with the Planning Commission of Pakistan for SDG reporting, provincial and area/region health departments for alignment with strategies, and other stakeholders (Government of Pakistan 2016). 9.1 ANTENATAL CARE COVERAGE AND CONTENT 9.1.1 Skilled Providers Antenatal care (ANC) from a skilled provider Pregnancy care received from skilled providers, such as doctors, nurses, midwives, and lady health visitors Sample: