particularly for girls, has also undermined the efforts made at primary level and improving enrolments. Provinces suffer from inadequate availability of classrooms in most public schools leading to very crowded classrooms and widespread use of multigrade teaching. Although global evidence indicates that multigrade teaching is a reasonable option to provide schooling in remote and small communities, this is not the case in many schools that suffer the lack of good multigrade practices and irregular teacher attendance. Teacher deployment and gaps in the supply, quality and training of teachers in expanding areas of ECD and secondary level has led to low levels of learning and higher numbers of dropouts from such schools. According to an estimate, the total number of teachers will need to expand from 1.2 million to almost 1.7 million across education levels including public and private education sector by 2030.147 It is argued that the main reason given by households for both boys and girls dropping out of school is the unwillingness of the children themselves to attend. It may be that this “unwillingness” masks several supply-side issues that households do not articulate, including poor facilities and low quality of education as well as the socio-economic situation of the household itself. Inequities in the education outcomes present themselves across genders, different socioeconomic groups, geographic areas, and within provinces and tend to compound with girls from poor rural families least likely to go to school. External factors, notably poverty, constraining social norms, and ethnic/ language issues also contribute to drop-out and inequities in education and learning outcomes. 147 Education Commission’s Learning Generation vision model/scenario developed in 2018 based on 2015 data by UNICEF ROSA. For Pakistan to achieve universal pre-primary, primary, and secondary education access by 2030 on par with high income countries. Low domestic investment in social spending calls for increase in spending and sustained higher domestic allocations to the education sector. For acceleration of reforms, interventions are needed to: (i) expand and invest in pre-primary as an effective way to increase enrolment, reduce drop out, improve learning outcomes, address equity and enhance overall basic education efficiency through strengthened sector management; (ii) effective investment in equity by scaling up efforts and developing an actionable strategy to expand school opportunities, target resources to the most disadvantaged particularly girls, and promote accelerated learning opportunities; (iii) adopt innovative approaches to increase numbers and quality of teaching and non-teaching professionals; (iv) increase