to clarify any questions. The teams were then dispatched to their respective clusters. The fieldwork and data collection lasted until 30 April 2018. The fieldwork in some districts took longer than expected due to access and security challenges. As mentioned earlier, the fieldwork could not be carried out in 19 out of the 580 clusters. Fieldwork monitoring was an integral part of the 2017-18 PDHS, and several rounds were carried out by the PDHS core team, the provincial coordinators, the quality controllers, and ICF staff. The monitors were provided with guidelines for overseeing the fieldwork. The quality and progress of data collection was also 6 • Introduction and Survey Methodology monitored through weekly field check tables and dashboards generated from conducted interviews. These were sent to the central office and used to provide regular feedback to the teams. 1.8 DATA PROCESSING The processing of the 2017-18 PDHS data began simultaneously with the fieldwork. As soon as data collection was completed in each cluster, all electronic data files were transferred via IFSS to the NIPS central office in Islamabad. These data files were registered and checked for inconsistencies, incompleteness, and outliers. The field teams were alerted to any inconsistencies and errors. Secondary editing was carried out in the central office, which involved resolving inconsistencies and coding the openended questions. The NIPS data processing manager coordinated the exercise at the central office. The PDHS core team members assisted with the secondary editing. Data entry and editing were carried out using the CSPro software package. The concurrent processing of the data offered a distinct advantage as it maximised the likelihood of the data being error-free and accurate. The secondary editing of the data was completed in the first week of May 2018. The final cleaning of the data set was carried out by The DHS Program data processing specialist and completed on 25 May 2018. Throughout this report, numbers in the tables reflect weighted numbers. Percentages based on 25 to 49 unweighted cases are shown in parentheses. Percentages based on fewer than 25 unweighted cases are suppressed and replaced with an asterisk, thereby cautioning readers that a percentage based on fewer than 50 cases may not be statistically reliable. 1.9 RESPONSE RATES Table 1.1 shows response rates for the 2017-18 PDHS. A total of 15,671 households were selected for the survey, of which 15,051 were occupied. The response rates are presented separately for