who do not justify wife beating under any circumstance (16%) and highest among those who justify wife beating under five to six circumstances (20%) (Table 15.16). 15.15 REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CARE BY WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT In general, women’s empowerment is positively associated with reproductive health seeking behaviour. There is a positive relationship between the number of decisions in which women participate and all three components of reproductive care. Among women who participate in all three decisions, 91% received antenatal care, 79% received delivery care from a skilled provider, and 71% received postnatal checkups within the first 2 days after birth (Table 15.17). A similar pattern is observed with respect to justification of wife beating. Among women who do not justify wife beating in any circumstance, 91% received antenatal care from a skilled provider, 79% received delivery care from a skilled provider, and 69% received postnatal checkups in the first 2 days after birth. 15.16 EARLY CHILDHOOD MORTALITY AND WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT The ability of women to access information to make decisions and the ability to act effectively in their own interests or in the interests of those who depend on them are essential aspects of empowerment. It follows that if women, who are the primary caretakers of children, are empowered, the health and survival of their children will be enhanced. In fact, maternal empowerment fits into the Mosley-Chen framework on child survival as an intervening individual-level variable that affects child survival through proximate determinants (Mosley and Chen 1984). There is a negative relationship between all three indicators of childhood mortality (infant, child, and under-5 mortality) and women’s participation in decision making. All three mortality rates decline as women’s participation in decision making increases. Infant mortality declines from 67 deaths per 1,000 live births among women who do not participate in any decisions to 61 deaths per 1,000 live births among women who participate in all three decisions, and the same trend is observed for under-5 mortality rates. Although there is no clear pattern with respect to justification of wife beating, childhood mortality rates are lower among women who do not justify wife beating in any circumstance than among women who justify wife beating under five to six circumstances (Table 15.18). LIST OF TABLES For more information on women’s empowerment, see the following tables: ▪ Table 15.1 Employment and cash earnings of currently married women and men ▪ Table 15.2.1 Control over women’s cash