national response to climate change. A National Climate Change Policy (NCCP) was developed in 2012, followed by an implementation framework in 2014. In 2017, MoCC was created and the Pakistan Climate Change Act passed to strengthen institutional capacity at the federal level. The act calls for the creation of three main instruments: a Climate Change Council, a Climate Change Authority, and a national Climate Change Fund. Khyber Pakhtunkhwa was the first province in Pakistan to draft a provincial Climate Change Policy in 2016, followed by Sindh’s formulation of a provincial Climate Change Policy in 2018. 209 ReliefWeb, Pakistan: Drought 2018-2019, United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), New York and Geneva, 2019, <https://reliefweb.int/disaster/dr-2018-000428-pak>, accessed 4 May 2020. UNICEF is conducting Climate Landscape Analysis for Children (CLAC) in many countries to examine climate change’s impact on children and vulnerable populations. Initiating this exercise in Pakistan is recommended to address the limited understanding of the impact climate change has on the country’s children, especially by identifying specific climate change risks for children. The findings of such an analysis and its recommendations on climate, energy and environment (CEE) interventions should be integrated in national, sectoral and subnational development strategies and plans, including the priorities of UNICEF’s next country programme for Pakistan. IMPACT OF COVID-19 ON CLIMATE CHANGE A reduction in global carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions has been one clear, immediate effect of the COVID-19 pandemic.210 The global reaction to the pandemic sheds light on how far the world still has to go to slow the pace of global warming, highlighting the scale of action needed to tackle climate change – as economies have ground to a virtual standstill, the use of fossil fuel has plummeted, as have air and water pollution. Lower-income and vulnerable populations are being disproportionately affected by both climate change and the pandemic.211 The fall in emissions prompted by COVID-19 will not stop climate change and the current drop in greenhouse gas emissions linked to the pandemic will likely be a short-term trend. Once the global economy begins to recover, emissions are expected to return to pre-pandemic levels, or to shoot up even further.212 Another negative impact of COVID-19 is a potential loss of momentum on efforts to address climate change. In the initial aftermath of the global financial crisis of 2008, global CO2 emissions caused by fossil fuel combustion and cement production decreased by 1.4 percent,