decreases with an increase in maternal education. For instance, children of mothers with no education have a median duration of breastfeeding as 21 months, compared with only 12.5 months among children whose mothers have higher education. ▪ The median duration for any breastfeeding decreases with household wealth, from 22.3 months in the lowest quintile to 12.3 months in the highest quintile. ▪ Among the regions, the median duration of any breastfeeding is highest in Sindh (22.5 months) and lowest in the Punjab (15.2 months). 11.2.5 Complementary Feeding After the first 6 months, breast milk is no longer enough to meet the nutritional needs of the infant; at this time appropriate complementary foods should be introduced. The transition from exclusive breastfeeding to family foods occurs when children are most vulnerable to malnutrition. Complementary feeding should be timely (offering foods in addition to breast milk from 6 months onwards), adequate (in amount, frequency, consistency, and variety), and appropriate (in texture). Foods should include animal source foods and fruits and vegetables. Table 11.6 shows the percentage of youngest children, under age 2 and living with their mother, by the types of foods and liquids consumed in the day and/or night preceding the interview, and in relation to the 1 The Sindh Protection and Promotion of Breastfeeding and Child Nutrition Act, 2013; Balochistan Protection and Promotion of Breastfeeding and Child Nutrition Act, 2014; Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Protection and Promotion of Breastfeeding and Child Nutrition Act, 2015; and Punjab Protection and Promotion of Breastfeeding and Child Nutrition Act, 2012. The Punjab Act has been notified as the Protection of Breastfeeding and Child Nutrition Rules 2014. 216 • Nutrition of Children and Women child’s age and breastfeeding status. Only 65% of breastfeeding and 67% of nonbreastfeeding children, age 6-8 months, received solid or semisolid foods. Among children 6-23 months, grains were commonly consumed foods followed by other milk. The least consumed foods include legumes and nuts. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Seventy-three percent of breastfed children age 6-23 months consumed grains, 29% consumed eggs, 18% consumed Vitamin A-rich fruits and vegetables, and 13% consumed meat products. ▪ Eighty percent of nonbreastfeeding children age 6-23 months consumed grains, 36% consumed eggs, 19% consumed Vitamin A-rich fruits and vegetables, and 13% consumed meat products. 11.2.6 Minimum Acceptable Diet Infants and young children should be fed a minimum acceptable diet (MAD) to ensure appropriate growth and development. Without adequate diversity