44 measurers weighed and measured the same group of children twice to assess the accuracy and precision of the measurements. The results of the standardisation exercise were presented. Inter-observer and intraobserver variations of the same measurements as well as the concept of accuracy and precision were explained to the participants. Those who were out of range three or more times were trained further. In addition, the supervisors and quality control staff were trained on anthropometry to equip them to monitor the fieldwork and provide appropriate feedback. Throughout the training, participants were evaluated through in-class exercises, quizzes, and observations made during field practice. At the end of the training, the 22 fieldwork teams were formed by selecting supervisors, enumerators, and field editors based on their performance. Ultimately, 22 supervisors, 88 participants, and 22 field editors were identified, while the rest of the participants were kept as reserves. The supervisors received additional training in performing supervisory activities, data quality control procedures, fieldwork coordination, and management. They learned to assign households and review the completed questionnaires. The field editors received the completed questionnaires and edited them with the CAFE system, identifying and dealing with error messages, providing feedback to the field teams, closing clusters, and transferring interviews to the central office via the secure internet file streaming system (IFSS) developed by The DHS Program. Four provincial coordinators and 13 quality controllers were trained along with the supervisors and also received additional training on supporting the teams and monitoring the fieldwork. 1.7 FIELDWORK The fieldwork of the 2017-18 PDHS was launched under close supervision from three focal points; namely, Islamabad on 22 November 2017 and Sindh and Balochistan on 23 November 2017. Fourteen teams were deployed in clusters around Islamabad, four teams in Sindh, and four teams in Balochistan. Each team consisted of one supervisor, one field editor, one male interviewer, and three female interviewers. The NIPS core team, provincial coordinators, quality controllers, and ICF staff closely monitored the teams. After fieldwork in the first clusters, teams were brought back to the central location for a review session where the teams had an opportunity to clarify any questions. The teams were then dispatched to their respective clusters. The fieldwork and data collection lasted until 30 April 2018. The fieldwork in some districts took longer than expected due to access and security challenges. As mentioned earlier, the fieldwork could not be carried out in 19