are presented separately in the last four rows. For more information on sampling, see Example 3. Step 6: To find out what percentage of ever-married women with higher education watch television at least once a week, draw two imaginary lines, as shown on the table. This shows that 78.9% of ever-married women age 15-49 with higher education watch television on a weekly basis. By looking at patterns by background characteristics, we can see how exposure to mass media varies across Pakistan. Mass media are often used to communicate health messages. Knowing how mass media exposure varies among different groups can help programme planners and policy makers determine how to most effectively reach their target populations. *For the purpose of this document data are presented exactly as they appear in the table including decimal places. However, the text in the remainder of this report rounds data to the nearest whole percentage point. xxxii • Reading and Understanding Tables from the 2017-18 PDHS Practice: Use the table in Example 1 to answer the following questions: a) What percentage of ever-married women in Pakistan do not access any of the three media at least once a week? b) Which age group of ever-married women are most likely to watch television at least once a week? c) Compare ever-married women in urban areas to rural areas – which group is more likely to read a newspaper weekly? d) What are the lowest and highest percentages (range) of ever-married women who do not access any of the three media at least once a week by region? e) Is there a clear relationship in exposure to newspapers on a weekly basis by education level? f) Is there a clear relationship in exposure to television on a weekly basis by wealth quintile? Answers: a) 46.9% b) Ever-married women age 30-34: 53.1% of ever-married women in this age group watch television on a weekly basis. c) Ever-married women in urban areas, 8.7% read a newspaper weekly, compared to 3.0% of ever-married women in rural areas. d) Ever-married women with no exposure to media ranges from a low of 20.0% in ICT Islamabad to a high of 86.8% in FATA. e) Exposure to newspapers on a weekly basis increases as a women’s level of education increases; 0.2% of ever-married women with no education read a newspaper on a weekly basis, compared to 20.0% of ever-married women with higher education.