Economic Survey 2018–19 & 2019-20, Government of Pakistan. The Government has also made efforts in the past to re-prioritize Public Sector Development Programme (PSDP) allocations to focus more on pro-poor projects, and on projects in less developed areas. Currently, pro-poor52 expenditures stand totals PKR 3,099 billion, an increase from PKR 2,694.6 billion in 2015–16. Pro-poor expenditure accounts for 8 percent of GDP and has declined from 9.5 percent in 2016-17. In this context, the highest spending has been on health, education and infrastructure. Although, the exact expenditure is on dealing with the impacts of COVID-19 cannot be articulated, development budgets have been under pressure as public sector financial allocations are diverted towards addressing health and economic impacts of the pandemic. This may derail provincial trajectories, highlighting the critical importance of addressing the high risk of decreasing budgets for the most vulnerable, including children. Every child survives and thrives 52 The Government has prioritized 17 pro-poor sectors through its Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) in the Second Pakistan Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP II). These include the environment, water and sanitation, education, health, population planning, social security and welfare, natural disasters, agriculture and rural development, among others. Chapter 3: Rights-based, equity-focused thematic analyses Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 38 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 39 EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES NUTRITIONAL STATUS OF CHILDREN IN PAKISTAN Malnutrition is one of the most serious public health concerns in Pakistan. It not only takes a heavy toll on the health of the population – especially of infants, children and women of reproductive age in the form of contribution to high mortality and morbidity rates – but also poses a major developmental challenge. High levels of malnutrition costs Pakistan US$7.6 billion or 3 percent of GDP every year.53 They threaten the achievement of the SDGs, particularly SDG 2 (‘zero hunger’) and SDG 3 (‘good health and well-being’). Worldwide, poor nutrition is associated with almost half of all child deaths,54 causing an estimated 45 percent of the deaths in children under five (approximately 3.1 million child deaths each year).55 As stunting, wasting and children being overweight are key indicators for quantifying the prevalence of malnutrition, SDG target 2.2 focuses on these indicators to improve nutrition and end all forms of malnutrition. This includes achieving internationally agreed targets on stunting, wasting and overweight in children