of the most serious public health and development challenges facing the world today. AIDS is caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). HIV weakens the immune system, making the body susceptible to secondary infections and opportunistic diseases. Without treatment, HIV infection leads to AIDS, which is invariably fatal. The predominant mode of HIV transmission is sexual contact. Other modes of transmission are unsafe injections, use of tainted blood supplies during blood transfusions, and mother-to-child transmission (in which the mother passes HIV to her child during pregnancy, delivery, or breastfeeding). The Government of Pakistan (GoP) has launched an HIV/AIDS prevention and awareness programme generally known as NACP (National AIDS Control Programme). It was established in 1986-87 with a focus on cases diagnosed in hospitals but progressively began to shift towards a community focus. Since then, the GoP has maintained a sustained response to the HIV epidemic through close collaborations among NACP, provincial AIDS control programmes and the programme in Azad Jammu and Kashmir, UN agencies, bilateral and multilateral donors, and a consortium of non-governmental organisations and A 246 • HIV/AIDS-related Knowledge, Attitudes, and Behaviour civil society organisations (CSOs), including people living with HIV (PLHIV) representative organisations operating at the national, provincial, and grassroots levels (International Labour Organisation 2015). 13.1 HIV/AIDS KNOWLEDGE, TRANSMISSION, AND PREVENTION METHODS The 2017-18 PDHS included a series of questions to measure respondents’ knowledge and attitudes regarding HIV/AIDS. Ever-married women and men age 15-49 were first asked whether they had heard of HIV/AIDS. Those who reported having heard of HIV/AIDS were asked additional questions regarding the various modes of prevention, including whether it is possible to reduce the chance of getting the HIV virus by having just one faithful sex partner and using a condom during every sexual encounter. To allow an assessment of the level of possible misconceptions, respondents were also asked whether they think it is possible for a healthy-looking person to have the HIV/AIDS virus and whether a person can contract HIV/AIDS from mosquito bites, by sharing food with a person who has HIV/AIDS, or through supernatural means. Thirty-two percent of ever-married women and 67% of men are aware of HIV/AIDS (Table 13.1). Overall, 18% of women and 46% of men know that using condoms is a way to prevent HIV transmission (Table 13.2). Twenty-five percent of women and 58% of men recognise that the risk of getting HIV can be reduced by limiting sexual