of the WHO’s ICD-10 and all senior reviewers had prior experience with VA interpretation. Causes of death were assigned using the coding manual from the Alliance for Maternal and Newborn Health Improvement (AMANHI) mortality study [15,16]. The AMANHI study used VAs to quantify the burden, timing and causes of maternal and neo­ natal deaths and stillbirths in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia from 2012 to 2016. The AMANHI manual was created in accordance with the ICD-10 hierarch­ ical classification system [14] and the WHO Verbal Autopsy Coding Standards [13]. For the current study, a list of programmatically relevant causes of neonatal death and their definitions were adapted from the AMANHI manual (Table 1). Given the difficulty of distinguishing between sepsis, pneumonia and meningitis in a neonate in a low resource setting, a single category of “infection’ was created to subsume all three diagnoses. In addition, the category labeled ‘intrapartum-related complica­ tions’ included both intrapartum asphyxia and birth injury because both causes of death are related to intrapartum management which would not be affected by the iNCK. Finally, given the low reliability of gestational age dating in the rural Pakistan study setting, prematurity and LBW were combined into one cause of death category labeled as ‘prematur­ ity/LBW’. Table 1. Potential underlying neonatal causes of deatha. Underlying Cause of Death Abridged Case Definition Infection Generally well at birth and then develop poor feeding and/or temperature derangement and/or fast/difficulty breathing and/or lethargy and/or seizures. Includes sepsis, pneumonia and meningitis. Intrapartum-related complications Includes severe birth injury and perinatal asphyxia (failure to breathe at birth with progressively worsening condition or abnormal level of consciousness since birth). Tetanus Progressive inability to suck and stiffness starting after day 3 of life. Congenital malformation Major structural anomalies that directly impair normal respiratory, cardiac, feeding or gastrointestinal functions. Prematurity/LBW Death due to a complication specific to prematurity or gestational age < 34 weeks/birthweight < 2000 grams and no other underlying cause of death. Accident/Injury Severe accident/injury after birth directly resulting in death. Other specific perinatal cause of death Cause identified but not listed above. Cause not able to be determined Insufficient or poor quality VA data or physicians failed to reach consensus. aAdapted from the Alliance for Maternal and Newborn Health Improvement (AMANHI) mortality study manual (15, 16) GLOBAL HEALTH ACTION 3 Importantly, prematurity/LBW was primarily assigned as an underlying cause of death if a prema­ ture/LBW neonate died