for drinking are classified as using an improved source only if their water source for cooking and hand washing comes from an improved source. Sample: Households I 10 • Housing Characteristics and Household Population Improved sources of water protect against outside contamination so that water is more likely to be safe to drink. In Pakistan, almost all households (95%) have access to an improved source of drinking water (Table 2.1 and Figure 2.1). The most common source of drinking water in Pakistan is a tube well or borehole (55%), followed by piped water (24%). Tube wells or boreholes are the most common source in the both urban and rural areas (37% and 65%, respectively). Seventy-three percent of households have drinking water on their premises, and 10% of households spend more than 30 minutes to obtain water. Eighty-seven percent of households using piped water or water from a tube well or borehole reported that water was available without interruption in the past 2 weeks (Table 2.2). Availability of water without interruption was higher in rural (92%) than in urban (78%) areas. Only 7% of households follow appropriate water treatment practices prior to drinking. Appropriate treatment practices are followed more often in urban areas (15%) than in rural areas (2%) (Table 2.1). Trends: In 2017-18, 95% of households used an improved source of drinking water, as compared with 94% in 2012-13. There was also a slight decline (1%) in the use of appropriate water treatment practices, from 8% to 7%, in the same period. 2.2 SANITATION Improved toilet facilities Include any non-shared toilet of the following types: flush/pour flush toilets to piped sewer systems, septic tanks, and pit latrines; ventilated improved pit (VIP) latrines; pit latrines with slabs. Sample: Households Use of improved toilet facilities, which are nonshared facilities that prevent people from coming into contact with human waste, helps reduce the transmission of communicable diseases such as cholera and typhoid. Overall, 70% of households (58% in rural areas and 88% in urban areas) use improved toilet facilities (Figure 2.2). Thirteen percent of households have no toilet facility (20% in rural areas and under 1% in urban areas) (Table 2.3). Trends: There have been substantial improvements in the use of improved sanitation facilities in the past 5 years. Households using improved facilities increased from 59% in 2013 to 70% in 2018. Similarly, the percentage of households with no toilet facility decreased from