and men (age 15-24) to believe that a wife is justified in negotiating safer sexual relations with her husband. ▪ Urban women and men (70% and 80%, respectively) are more likely than rural women and men (50% and 69%, respectively) to believe that a woman is justified in refusing sex with her husband if she knows he has sex with other women. Similarly, urban women and men are more likely to believe that a woman is justified in asking her husband to use a condom if she knows he has an STI than their rural counterparts. ▪ Women and men (81% and 82%, respectively) with a higher education are more likely than women and men with no education (45% and 60%, respectively) to justify refusal of sex if a wife knows that her husband has sex with other women. ▪ The proportion of women who believe that a wife is justified in refusing sex if she knows that her husband has sex with other women is lowest in FATA (26%) and highest in ICT Islamabad (77%) followed by Azad Jammu and Kashmir (75%). 15.11 ABILITY TO NEGOTIATE SEXUAL RELATIONS WITH HUSBAND Ability to negotiate sexual relations with husband Percentage of women who can say no to their husband if they do not want to have sexual intercourse and percentage who can ask their husband to use a condom. Sample: Women and men age 15-49 To assess the ability of a woman to negotiate sexual relations, currently married women were asked whether they can say no to their husband if they do not want to have sexual intercourse and whether they can ask their husband to use a condom. More than half of women (54%) can deny sex to their husband, and more than 4 in 10 (43%) can ask their husband to use a condom (Table 15.13). Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Women’s ability to negotiate sexual relations increases with increasing education. For instance, 76% of women with a higher education are able to refuse sex to their husband, as compared with only 41% of women with no education. Similarly, 65% of women with a higher education can ask their husband to use a condom, compared with only 31% of women with no education. ▪ The proportions of women reporting that they can deny sex and ask their husband to use a condom are lower in FATA (34% and 25%,