for water and sanitation, including institutional strengthening for effective service delivery, and behavioural change to ensure the sustainability and continuity of available, accessible safe water and sanitation. MoCC also created a Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) Strategic Unit in the same year. The Clean Green Pakistan Movement has strongly emphasized on institutional strengthening and behavioral change for rolling out safe Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 124 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 125 water, sanitation and plantation in the country. The slow progress on the front of safe water and sanitation is linked with capacity issues on part of the service providers. This has been highlighted as a key challenge in provincial WASH Sector Development Plans and Joint Sector Reviews held in all the four provinces. RECENT INSTITUTIONAL, LEGISLATIVE AND POLICY DEVELOPMENTS Pakistan’s National Water Policy was approved in 2018 after years in the making. Anchored in the paradigm of integrated water resource management, the policy outlines a framework for interventions by federal and provincial governments to address issues that are driving the declining supply and deteriorating quality of water. The policy also calls for a substantial increase in public investments in the water sector by the Federal Government – advocating for a rise from 3.7 percent in Since 2011, Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Sindh and Balochistan have approved provincial drinking water policies. Provincial sector plans have been developed: Punjab WASH Sector Plan 2014-2024, Balochistan WASH Sector Plan 2015-2025, Sindh WASH Sector Plan 2016-2026 and KP WASH Sector Plan which initiated in 2018. The process of WASH Joint Sector Reviews (JSRS) were rolled out in Pakistan in 2016. MoCC in collaboration with UNICEF and sector partners issued guidelines to the provincial departments for rolling out and cascading WASH-JSRs in their respective provinces. In 2017-2018, all four provinces conducted JSRs with the intention to integrate JSRs as essential component of country planning while strengthening the government leadership. In KP province, the recommendations of JSR have been integrated into ‘Peshawar Declaration’ of November 2017. Similarly, the provincial governments endorsed WASH-JSR Report 2017, along with targets set for SDG 6.1 and 6.2 for the province up to 2030. IMPACT OF COVID-19 ON WASH WASH is central to infection prevention and control and provision of safe water, sanitation and hygienic conditions is essential to protecting human health during all infectious disease outbreaks, including the