facilities; materials used for flooring, external walls, and roofing; ownership of various durable goods; ownership of mosquito nets; migration; and disability. The Woman’s Questionnaire was used to collect information from all eligible ever-married women age 15-49. These women were asked questions on the following topics: ▪ Background characteristics (including age, education, and media exposure) ▪ Pregnancy history and child mortality ▪ Knowledge, use, and source of family planning methods ▪ Antenatal, delivery, and postnatal care ▪ Vaccinations and childhood illnesses ▪ Breastfeeding and infant feeding practices ▪ Marriage and sexual activity ▪ Fertility preferences (including desire for more children, ideal number of children) ▪ Women’s work and husbands’ background characteristics ▪ Knowledge, awareness, and behaviour regarding HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections ▪ (STIs) ▪ Knowledge, attitudes, and behaviour related to other health issues (e.g., smoking, tuberculosis, hepatitis) ▪ Domestic violence The Man’s Questionnaire was administered to all ever-married men age 15-49 in the subsample of households selected for the man’s survey. The Man’s Questionnaire collected much of the same information as the Woman’s Questionnaire but was shorter because it did not contain a detailed reproductive history or questions on maternal and child health. The Biomarker Questionnaire was used to record the results of the anthropometry measurements of women and children. This questionnaire was administered only to a sub-sample selected for the men’s survey. All children 0-59 months and all ever-married women age 15-49 were eligible for height and weight measurement. 4 • Introduction and Survey Methodology The purpose of the Fieldworker Questionnaire was to collect basic background information on the people who collected data in the field (supervisor, editor, and interviewers).The questionnaire was used to record background information from the interviewers that will serve as a tool in conducting analyses of data quality. Each fieldworker completed a self-administered Fieldworker Questionnaire after the final selection of fieldworkers and before the fieldworkers entered the field. No personal identifiers are attached to each 2017-18 PDHS fieldworker’s data file. The Community Questionnaire was administered during the fieldwork to collect information about basic infrastructure in the clusters and access to health facilities and services. The Community Questionnaire was only implemented in rural clusters. Community representatives who provided information for the questionnaire included, among others, village leaders, counsellors, religious leaders, local teachers, lady health visitors, and lady health workers. 1.4 ANTHROPOMETRY In a subsample of the households selected for the man’s survey, the 2017-18 PDHS recorded