depending on changing donor and government priorities. In Punjab, DFID and the World Bank are the largest donors that support the provincial government’s education reform programme. Major contributors to Sindh’s education sector are USAID, the EU, the World Bank and ADB. Development partners have also come forward to support government efforts to minimize the disruption of education and facilitate the continuity of learning in the context of COVID-19. One notable investment is the World Bank’s Pandemic Response Effectiveness in Pakistan Project, worth US$200 million, to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic by strengthening the country’s national health care systems and mitigating socioeconomic disruptions. As noted above, US$5 million of this sum has been assigned to mitigate the pandemic’s impact on education by supporting remote learning for 50 million children. It will also assist a comprehensive communications campaign to help schools and parents engage in distance learning activities (including television and radio broadcasts, a virtual network of teachers, and other ways of delivering academic content at a distance). The World Bank’s COVID-19 response focuses on three workstreams: (i) repurposing or restructuring existing projects worth US$6 million; (ii) an emergency fast track response through additional funding under the Pandemic Response Effectiveness in Pakistan Project which involves supporting the Federal Government’s ‘Teleschool’ initiative and new digital content; and (iii) a national pipeline project – the Equitable Education Project – that will specifically will focus on digital technology, broadcasts, distance learning, federal and provincial coordination, and grants for provinces. The Global Partnership for Education (GPE) – a global multi-stakeholder partnership and funding platform dedicated to ensuring education for children in the world’s poorest countries, especially girls – is expected to provide US$20 million in funding for a national education programme. These funds are within the larger investment of US$125 million under Education Sector Program Implementation Grant for Pakistan that also includes US$50.6 million for Punjab, US$31 million for Sindh, US$23.2 million for Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and US$20 million for Balochistan. Additionally, the GPE funding will also include a Multiplier Grant of US$25 million for Sindh. Out of the $200 million World Bank’s Pandemic Response Effectiveness in Pakistan Project approximately US$32 million has been allocated for CRVS for the four provinces, however, this is still in pipeline. The government has also recently approved World Bank’s lending of US$500 million including US$10 million allocated for CRVS for the provinces (2 district for each province) to scale up the