This could lead to the release of massive amounts of greenhouse gas that are stored in one of the world’s most important carbon sinks. See: <https://www.hrw.org/news/2020/04/16/how-covid-19-could-impact-climate-crisis> Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 138 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 139 are heavily focused on social protection and economic relief, diverting much development funding to fight the effects of the pandemic. Tackling climate change must be woven into the solutions adopted to address economic crisis caused by COVID-19. SOCIAL PROTECTION Social protection is regarded as a basic human right guaranteed in several international covenants and treaties. Social protection systems are essential to ensure that no one is left behind and are fundamental to prevent and reduce poverty across the life cycle, including cash transfers for children, mothers with newborns, for persons with disabilities, for those poor or without jobs, and for older persons. Goal 1 under SDGs, particularly target 1.3 requires countries to implement nationally appropriate social protection systems and measures for all, including floors, and by 2030 achieve substantial coverage of the poor and the vulnerable. The Constitution of Pakistan exclusively stipulates the provision of social security for all citizens of the country. The country has number of social security schemes that are being carried out by provincial and federal governments. The National Social Protection Strategy (NSPS) of Pakistan which was adopted in 2007 is the broader policy framework for planning and delivery of social protection services in the country. Although, the Government of Pakistan is spending a huge amount on social security programs, they are rather fragmented and their coverage of children not easy to determine. Overall, spending on social protection in Pakistan is estimated to be less than 1% of GDP. This may be due to the classification of social protection functions within the government’s public expenditure system as well as due to the challenges in assessing total funding. 214Building a comprehensive approach to integrated social protection systems across the life course in Pakistan is extremely essential and expanding fiscal space for social protection would reach more families with children. After the 2018 General Election, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI) formed a government on a manifesto that broadly focused on transforming governance through accountability, while empowering people at the grassroots level by revamping social services.215 In 2019, the Poverty Alleviation and Social Safety (PASS) Division was established under the Cabinet