and 45 (55%) in the control arm. Among the 63 (43%) neonatal deaths for which a VA was not completed, nine families migrated outside of the study catchment area following the neo­ natal death and were not reachable for further data collection. The remaining 54 families were not approached for a VA due to an implementationrelated protocol deviation in which an abbreviated vital outcomes form, rather than a comprehensive VA, was administered to families with incomplete followup. There was no difference in place of residence at the level of the Union Council or place of birth between deaths with completed VAs and deaths without com­ pleted VAs. The median age at death for neonates with completed VAs was 4 days (IQR 3, 9) compared to 3 days (IQR 1, 3) for neonates without completed VAs (p < 0.001). Additional socio-demographic compari­ sons between deaths with completed VAs and deaths without completed VAs could not be performed due to missing data. Among participants for which a neonatal VA was completed, 97% of mothers in the intervention clus­ ters and 95% of mothers in the control clusters had at least one antenatal care visit (Table 2). Eighty-seven percent of mothers in the intervention clusters and 81% of mothers in the control clusters received at least one dose of tetanus toxoid during pregnancy. 4 J. DUBY ET AL. A greater proportion of the deceased neonates in the intervention clusters for whom a VA was completed were delivered at home compared to deceased neo­ nates in the control clusters for whom a VA was completed (p = 0.04). Birthweights were measured by data collectors for 65% of all neonatal deaths with a completed VA, and the mean birthweight was 2299 grams in the intervention clusters and 2220 grams in the control clusters. The most common underlying causes of death were infection (n = 37, 44%), intrapartum-related complica­ tions (n = 22, 26%) and prematurity/LBW (n = 17, 20%) (Figure 3). Five (6%) deaths were attributed to congenital malformation and one neonate (1%) died from another specific perinatal cause not listed in the coding manual. In two cases (2%), the underlying cause of death could not be ascribed. Twenty-two neonatal deaths had one asso­ ciated contributory cause of death and one death had two associated contributory causes of death. Prematurity/ LBW was the most common contributory cause of death (83%). Specifically, among deaths due to