knowledge, use, and sources of contraceptive methods, informed choice of methods, and rates and reasons for discontinuing contraceptives. It also examines the need for family planning and the demand for family planning that is satisfied. In addition, it provides information on decision-making about family planning, exposure to family planning messages, postpartum counselling received, and whether nonusers are contacting and discussing family planning with service providers. The use of family planning helps women avoid unintended and untimely pregnancies, and reduces risks of unsafe abortions. Contraceptives help women space the births of their children, which directly benefits the health of the mother and infants. Pakistan pledged to enhance its contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) to 50% to contribute towards Family Planning 2020 commitments (Jones 2016). This means reaching out and ensuring an additional 4.2 million women become users of family planning methods by 2022. F 114 • Family Planning 7.1 CONTRACEPTIVE KNOWLEDGE AND USE Knowledge of family planning methods is almost universal in Pakistan, with 98%-99% of currently married women and men age 15-49 knowing at least one method of family planning. Injectables and oral pills are the most well-known methods among currently married women, while male condoms and oral pills are most well-known among currently married men. Among currently married women and men, the standard day’s method is the least-known modern contraceptive method. Knowledge of implants has increased among currently married women since 2012-13 from 34% to 52%. On average, women and men each know seven family planning methods (Table 7.1). Men are more knowledgeable about traditional methods than women. Knowledge of contraceptive methods does not vary by all background characteristics among women and men. A comparatively low percentage of rural men from Balochistan (88%) had knowledge of any family planning method. Only 15% of currently married women knew of a family planning method prior to marriage. A substantially higher percentage of highly educated women (34%) and those residing in ICT Islamabad (28%) knew of a method prior to marriage (Table 7.2). Contraceptive prevalence rate Percentage of women who use any family planning method Sample: All ever-married women age 15-49, currently married women age 15-49 Overall, the contraceptive prevalence rate is 34% of currently married women age 15-49, with 25% using modern contraceptive methods and 9% using traditional methods. Use of a family planning method rises with age of currently married women (Table 7.3). The use of family planning methods among younger