age 20-34. ▪ Babies of high birth order are more likely to be of low birth weight. Twenty-five percent of live births with a birth order of 6 or higher had a low birth weight compared with 21% of those with a birth order of 2-5. ▪ Babies born to mothers who smoke cigarettes are more likely to have a low birth weight than babies born to mothers who do not smoke (28% and 22%, respectively). ▪ Babies born in households in the lowest wealth quintile are more likely (33%) to be of low birth weight than those born in households in the highest quintile (19%). ▪ Punjab has the highest percentage of babies (24%) with a reported birth weight of less than 2.5 kilograms. It is closely followed by Sindh at 23%. 10.2 VACCINATION OF CHILDREN Universal immunisation of children under age 1 to prevent the major vaccine-preventable diseases is one of the most cost-effective ways to reduce infant and child morbidity and mortality. The Government of Pakistan took important steps in 1978 to launch the Expanded Programme on Immunisation (EPI), which included all six recommended antigens to protect children against tuberculosis, poliomyelitis, diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, and measles. In 2003, the monovalent hepatitis B (HepB) vaccine was introduced, which was later administered as a single tetravalent (DPT-HepB) injection. The pentavalent vaccine was introduced in 2009 in Pakistan to protect against diphtheria, whooping cough, and tetanus (DPT), hepatitis B (HepB), and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib). In 2012, Pakistan introduced pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV), which protects against Streptococcus pneumonia. In 2015, Pakistan also introduced one dose of inactivated poliomyelitis vaccine (IPV) as part of a national routine immunisation schedule. Child Health • 185 All basic vaccinations coverage Percentage of children age 12-23 months who received specific vaccines at any time before the survey (according to a vaccination card or the mother’s report). To have received all basic vaccinations, a child must receive at least: ▪ One dose of BCG vaccine, which protects against tuberculosis ▪ Three doses of DPT vaccine, which protects against diphtheria, pertussis (whooping cough), and tetanus ▪ Three doses of polio vaccine ▪ One dose of measles vaccine Sample: Living children age 12-23 months According to WHO immunisation guidelines, children are considered fully immunised when they have received one dose of the vaccine against tuberculosis (BCG), three doses of the vaccine against diphtheria, pertussis, and tetanus (DPT),