in non-formal basic education centres remains challenges. Box 4: Skills Training A fundamental accelerator of transition from adolescence to adulthood is economic security, underpinned by socially approved gainful employment to sustain oneself and a family. Each year, hundreds of thousands of Pakistani young people between the ages of 15 and 29 enter the labour market, however, they finding it difficult to access decent jobs owing to poor educational outcomes, limited skills and a lack of confidence to enter the job market and succeed on the demand side and current macroeconomic environment affecting the private sector (responsible for creating 90 per cent of jobs in the country), overwhelming nature of informality in both rural and urban areas, demand for specific occupations and information gaps to reach potential employers on the supply side. Between 2015 and 2018, employment grew by 14 per cent for plant/machine operators, 10.6 per cent for technicians and associate professionals, and 5 per cent for professionals and for craft/trade-related workers. Three sectors manufacturing, services and construction generate the most demand annually for skilled graduates of technical and vocational education and training (TVET). The demand also comes from regional clusters (area specific and urban centers) where considerable economic activity is generated, an anticipated 800,000 jobs from CPEC in the nine priority Special Economic Zones (SEZs), international market that provided over 380,000 skilled and unskilled workers jobs in 2018 and demand for skills in the information communication technology sector. Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 86 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 87 Key stakeholders are the Ministry of Federal Education & Professional Training and the Ministry of Overseas Pakistanis and Human Resources Development, the National Vocational and Technical Training Commission (NAVTTC), and the National Training Bureau (NTB) at the federal level; and Training and Vocational Education Authorities (TEVTAs) at the provincial level. In 2019, NAVTTC developed the National Vocational Qualification Framework (NVQF) and initiated implementation of a competency-based training and assessment (CBT-A). There are over 3,500 TVET providers throughout the country, which enrolled over 433,000 students in 2018 under Skilling Pakistan initiative by NAVTTC. Female enrolment in TVET is low in comparison to male enrolment and informal systems of apprenticeship tend to be more common in Pakistan. Given the size of the youth cohort in Pakistan and potential demographic dividend it presents, there is an urgent need to find