all socioeconomic cohorts and geographic locations – with similar rates evident across urban and rural areas, among girls and boys, and across wealth quintiles. In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, MICS 2017 reports rates of violence are widespread. Among children between 1 and 14 years old, 81 percent were subjected to at least one form of psychological or physical punishment (any violent discipline) by household members in the month before the survey. The highest percentage is reported for children between 3 and 9 years old (over 85 percent). While 77 percent of children in the province experienced psychological aggression, 64 percent were subjected to physical punishment, and 25 percent to severe forms of physical punishment – including being hit on the head, ears or face, being hit hard, and being hit repeatedly. Rural children in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are subjected to more physical violence (65 percent) than urban children (58 percent). 156 UNICEF. Status of Civil Registration and Vital Statistics in South Asia Countries 2018, UNICEF, 2019. 157 As listed in Article 19, Paragraph 1 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) in conformity with the terminology used in the 2006 United Nations study on violence against children. Nevertheless, other terms used to describe specific types of harm (injury, abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, maltreatment and exploitation) carry equal weight. Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 102 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 103 Tensions between neighbouring countries and the emergence of new groups and continued threats from militant groups has affected the security situation, including children’s rights and protection in Pakistan. Balochistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and the Merged Districts remained the main geographical areas of concern. The previous annual reports of the Secretary-General on children and armed conflict verified the recruitment and use of children attributed to armed groups in Pakistan as well as increasing number of child casualties and attacks on schools, including the targeting of girls’ education and attacks relating to the Global Polio Eradication Initiative. The latest report158 states that, although a decrease in the number of attacks against schools and in the number of child casualties have been noted, still a total of 23 children were reportedly killed (5) and injured (18) during armed clashes or by shelling or targeted fire across the line of control, by improvised explosive devices and explosive remnants of war in Azad