were put immediately after birth on the bare skin of the mother’s chest. Nearly 1 in 10 newborns’ bare skin was touching their mother’s bare skin (9%). 164 • Maternal Health Care 9.5.4 PREGNANCY OUTCOMES The possible outcomes of a pregnancy are a live birth, a stillbirth, a miscarriage, or an (induced) abortion. Table 9.16 shows the percent distribution of all pregnancies that ended during the 5 years preceding the survey by type of outcome. The majority of pregnancies (83%) resulted in a live birth. More than 1 in 10 (13%) of pregnancies resulted in miscarriages, and a very small proportion ended in stillbirths and abortions (2% each). The proportion of pregnancies ending in miscarriage was higher among women age 35-49 (18%) and women from the highest quintile (18%) as compared with other women. Among women who had an abortion, 79% sought advice and treatment after their last abortion. A majority of those who sought advice or treatment consulted doctors (89%) followed by nurse, midwife, or lady health visitor (data not shown separately). 9.6 PROBLEMS IN ACCESSING HEALTH CARE Problems in accessing health care Women were asked whether each of the following factors is a big problem in seeking medical advice or treatment for themselves when they are sick: ▪ Getting permission to go to the doctor ▪ Getting money for advice or treatment ▪ Distance to a health facility ▪ Not wanting to go alone Sample: Women age 15-49 About two-thirds of women reported at least one problem in accessing health care for themselves (67%) (Table 9.17). About three-fifths of women reported not wanting to go alone (58%), for two-fifths distance to a health facility was a problem (42%), about one-third of women reported problems getting money for treatment (30%), and one-fifth mentioned that getting permission for accessing health care was a big problem (21%). Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Young women age 15-19 are more likely (83%) than women age 35-49 (59%) to report at least one problem in accessing health care. ▪ Women from rural areas (75%) were more likely to report at least one problem in accessing health care than women in urban areas (53%). ▪ Women with no education were more likely (75%) than women with higher education (47%) to report at least one problem in accessing health care. ▪ Similarly, women in the lowest wealth quintile (80%) were far more likely to report at