chest-related 2 Includes advice or treatment from public sector (government hospital, rural health centre, maternal and child health centre, basic health unit, lady health worker), private medical sector (private hospital, clinic, chemist, medical store, private doctor, homeopath, dispenser, compounder, other private), shops and other. Excludes advice or treatment from a traditional practitioner. 3 Includes grass, shrubs, crop residues 4 Total excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan. Total includes 3 cases with missing information mother’s smoking status and 1 case with missing information on type of cooking fuel. Step 1: Read the title and subtitle. In this case, the table is about two separate groups of children: all children under five (a) and children under five with symptoms of ARI in the two weeks before the survey (b). Step 2: Identify the two panels. First, identify the columns that refer to all children under five (a), and then isolate the columns that refer only to children under five with symptoms of ARI in the two weeks before the survey (b). Step 3: Look at the first panel. What percentage of children under five had symptoms of ARI in the two weeks before the survey? It’s 13.8%. Now look at the second panel. How many children under five are there who had symptoms of ARI in the two weeks before the survey? It’s 1,353 children or 13.8% of the 9,800 children under five (with rounding). The second panel is a subset of the first panel. Step 4: Only 13.8% of children under five had symptoms of ARI in the two weeks before the survey. Once these children are further divided into the background characteristic categories, there may be too few cases for the percentages to be reliable. • Among children whose households use animal dung for cooking fuel, what percentage of children under five who had recent symptoms of ARI had advice or treatment sought? It’s 90.1%. This percentage is in parentheses because there are between 25 and 49 unweighted cases in this category. Readers should use this number with caution—it may not be reliable. (For more information on weighted and unweighted numbers, see Example 3.) • Among children whose households use charcoal for cooking fuel, what percentage of children under five who had recent symptoms of ARI had advice or treatment sought? There is no number in this cell—only an asterisk. This is because fewer than 25 children under