facilities are within a 2 kilometres radius of slum residents. Low levels of social capital, community organization and trust in modern health care systems have been witnessed in urban slums. To safeguard the health of children and women in slums, there is a need to improve social and environmental conditions, including In essence, major investments are required in social and public health infrastructure. Action on environmental health is critical, given that at least 23 per cent of all mortality worldwide is attributable to environmental factors. Source: United Nations Children’s Fund, Health and Immunisation Services for the Urban Poor in Pakistan: A summary report of health profiles, health service assessments and immunisation coverage surveys in the 10 largest cities of Pakistan, UNICEF, Islamabad, 2020. CHILDHOOD ILLNESSES SDG 3 defines targets for key newborn and child health indicators, which Pakistan has committed to. SDGs 3.2’s targets include ending the preventable deaths of newborns and children under-five by preventing diseases such as diarrhoea, pneumonia and malaria – among the leading killers of children under-five. According to WHO, early childhood diseases and infections are the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in developing countries, including acute respiratory infections (ARI), fever and dehydration from diarrhoea. Proper care for newborns is essential to reduce neonatal problems and death. The Government of Pakistan has taken many measures to decrease neonatal mortality and morbidity rates with the Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 56 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 57 help of UNICEF, WHO, and other partners, but desirable goals are yet to be achieved. There is broad consensus that, in order to achieve the global targets outlined in Every Newborn Action Plan (ENAP) for neonatal deaths and stillbirths (< 10/1000 births), the country will need to make significant improvements in in-patient care for Newborns and Young Infants (NYIs). According to PDHS 201718, Pakistan has a high perinatal mortality rate of 57/1000 total births. Maternal factors for stillbirths have been identified as extreme maternal ages (below 18 and above 35), parity of zero or more than 3 (nulliparous and multiparous), lack of education and poor socioeconomic status, poor health-seeking behaviour, under-nutrition, anaemia, lack of autonomy and inadequate number of ANC visits. Obstetric causes included; antepartum haemorrhage, obstructed labour, placental disorders, and pregnancy-induced hypertension as factors leading to stillbirth.84 According to PDHS 2017-18, only 64 percent of newborns