17.13 shows the percent distribution of out-migrants within Pakistan by reason for migration, according to direction of movement. ▪ The most common reason reported for out-migrating is seeking better economic opportunities (42% of all out-migrants). ▪ Thirty percent of out-migrants migrated for marriage. ▪ Migration for better economic opportunities or marriage accounts for most out-migration, regardless of direction of move. 17.3 EMIGRATION According to recent estimates, approximately 8-9 million Pakistanis are presently working, studying, or living abroad in three primary regions: the Middle East, Europe (particularly the United Kingdom), and North America (Government of Pakistan 2018). Emigration to the United Kingdom started in the 1960s and continued into the mid-1970s, when temporary migration for employment began in the Middle East. Emigration to North America and some countries of Europe (e.g., Germany, Italy, and Spain) began in the 1990s. Large household surveys have seldom addressed or collected information on emigration. The 201718 PDHS module on out-migration gathered information from the sampled households about out-migration of their members occurring within the 10 years preceding the survey. Of note, migration to the Middle East is often for a short period (4-5 years), and migrants who went abroad and returned home were not included in the out-migration module; however, if they had not yet returned, they were counted as out-migrants. Table 17.14 presents the percentage of households with at least one emigrant in the last 10 years by region of destination. Overall, 6% of the sampled households had at least one emigrant migrating to the Middle East. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ There are large variations in emigration across provinces and regions. Emigration is most common in Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and FATA. Interestingly, 4% of households in Azad Jammu and Kashmir have at least one member in Europe. ▪ Eighty-one percent of people who emigrated in the last 10 years went to the Middle East and 14% went to Europe (Table 17.15). ▪ Seven percent of urban residents who emigrated in the last 10 years went to North America. ▪ Most emigrants are age 21-30 (56%), and 89% were age 40 or younger when they went abroad (Table 17.16). ▪ The age pattern of emigration is the same among urban and rural emigrants. ▪ Fifty-seven percent of emigrants had a secondary or higher education at the time of their emigration. Table 17.17 presents data on people’s reasons for emigrating according to