short for their age (stunted), or chronically undernourished. Children who are below minus three standard deviations (-3 SD) are considered severely stunted. Sample: Children under age 5 Wasting (assessed via weight-for-height) The weight-for-height index measures body mass in relation to body height or length and describes current nutritional status. Children whose Z-score is below (-2 SD) from the median of the reference population are considered thin (wasted), or acutely undernourished. Children whose weight-for-height Z-score is below minus three standard deviations (-3 SD) from the median of the reference population are considered severely wasted. Sample: Children under age 5 Overweight (assessed via weight-for-height) Children whose weight-for-height Z-score is more than 2 standard deviations (+2 SD) above the median of the reference population are considered overweight. Sample: Children under age 5 Nutrition of Children and Women • 211 Underweight (assessed via weight-for-age) Weight-for-age is a composite index of height-for-age and weight-for-height. It takes into account both acute and chronic undernutrition. Children whose weight-for-age Z-score is below (-2 SD) from the median of the reference population are classified as underweight. Children whose weight-for-age Zscore is below minus three standard deviations (-3 SD) from the median are considered severely underweight. Sample: Children under age 5 The means of the z-scores for height-for-age, weight-for-height, and weight-for-age are also calculated as summary statistics representing the nutritional status of children in a population. These mean scores describe the nutritional status of the entire population of children without the use of a cut-off point. A mean Z-score of less than 0 (that is, a negative mean value for stunting, wasting, or underweight) suggests the downward shift in the entire sample population’s nutritional status relative to the reference population. The farther away the mean z-scores are from 0, the higher would be the prevalence of undernutrition. 11.1.2 Data Collection A total of 3,994 children (unweighted) under age 5 were eligible for height and weight measurements from the subsample of households (excluding Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan). The analysis for anthropometric indices (height-for-age, weight-for-height, and weight-for-age) included valid dates of birth and measures of both height and weight. Valid height data were available for 87% of children, and valid weight data were available for 91% of children. Table C.7.1 provides additional information on data completeness and quality for the assessment of height, weight, and age among children. Similarly, for Azad Jammu and Kashmir, a total of 486 children