of the best available early care and safe environment for all children. The House also recognized the importance of the first thousand days of every child’s life, starting from conception, which is a unique period of opportunity for brain development and laying foundations of optimum health and future growth of children.” UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES 4 UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES 5 Routine immunization Universal and full immunization of children is crucial to reducing infant and child mortality and morbidity. While there is still a long way to go, the good news is that vaccination coverage in Pakistan has gradually increased from 35 per cent in 1990 to 66 per cent in 2018. It is encouraging that the percentage of children not receiving any of the six basic immunizations has decreased substantially since 1990, from 28 per cent to only 4 per cent in 2018. UNICEF has continued to provide the Government of Pakistan with vital support to implement the national Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI), including planning, monitoring, procurement, as well as improving the governance, resourcing and supply chain of the immunization system. On the demand side, the work focuses on advocacy and social mobilization. It is also focused on introducing innovations to achieve wide-scale results. The concept of equity — reaching the hardest-to-reach children and the less privileged — underpins everything UNICEF does to ensure that children in Pakistan survive and thrive. Polio Pakistan is one of three remaining polio-endemic countries in the world, along with Afghanistan and Nigeria. Since the launch of Pakistan’s Polio Eradication Programme in 1994, there has been a massive decline in polio cases from approximately 20,000 every year in the early 1990s to only eight cases in 2018. However, high-risk areas have remained reservoirs and the porous border with neighbouring Afghanistan requires continued concerted action. An array of approaches and tools are implemented to help Pakistan reach the finish line of zero polio cases, with strong support from the government and the coordinated efforts of partners, including UNICEF. These approaches and tools are outlined in the National Emergency Action Plan of the Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme (NEAP). Given the frequent population movements between Pakistan and Afghanistan, the programme synchronizes and coordinates its operations with the Afghan Polio Eradication Programme. Strengthened links between routine immunisation and polio Links between routine immunization and polio have been strengthened under