methods, and primary results of the iNCK cluster-randomized controlled trial in RYK, Pakistan have been previously reported [11,12]. In brief, a total of 150 clusters, defined as a village and its associated LHWs, were randomly assigned to receive either the iNCK (intervention) or local stan­ dard of care by LHWs (control). Clusters were stra­ tified based on the number of LHWs serving each village. Between April 2014 to July 2015, 5451 preg­ nant women were enrolled (2663 and 2788 in the intervention and control clusters, respectively). Data collectors visited households in both the intervention and controls clusters soon after birth (day 1) and up to four additional times during the first month of life (days 3, 7, 14, and 28). Data regarding demographics, pregnancy outcome, iNCK compliance and neonatal health and vital status were collected. If a stillbirth or neonatal death was identi­ fied, families were approached after a minimum grieving period of two weeks and verbal consent was obtained to administer a VA. Data collectors administering the VA had a minimum of 14 years of education and received training on how to conduct Figure 1. Integrated neonatal care kit. a) The integrated neonatal care kit (iNCK) included i) a clean birth kit; ii) 4% chlorhexidine solution that is to be applied with; iii) cotton balls; iv) sunflower oil emollient; v) ThermospotTM; vi) a reusable heat pack; and vii) a reflective polyester blanket. b) A hand-held scale was provided to the LHWs in the intervention clusters. Reproduced with permission from the iNCK study authors (12). 2 J. DUBY ET AL. the structured interview in a simple and sensitive manner. The VA was administered to the mother if she was present or to the father if he was the only parent present. If neither parent was available, the data collector would attempt to visit at a later date or administer the VA to the most closely related adult caregiver who was present at the time of the interview. The 2012 World Health Organization (WHO) VA Instrument was adapted and translated from English to Urdu [13]. The VA included categorical questions in addition to a free form narrative. The questions obtained information related to maternal health, pregnancy, delivery, the condition of the neonate after delivery, neonatal injuries, neonatal illnesses, treatments used and events leading up to the death (Supplemental Material). Responses to questions were collected on paper forms. Field supervisors vali­ dated