Community Questionnaire was only implemented in rural clusters. Community representatives who provided information for the questionnaire included, among others, village leaders, counsellors, religious leaders, local teachers, lady health visitors, and lady health workers. 1.4 ANTHROPOMETRY In a subsample of the households selected for the man’s survey, the 2017-18 PDHS recorded height and weight measurements for children age 0-59 months and women age 15-49. Two enumerators in each field team were assigned to jointly take measurements. In contrast to the data collection procedure for the household and individual interviews, data related to anthropometry was initially recorded on the Biomarker Questionnaire and subsequently entered into interviewers' tablet computers. 1.5 PRETEST Thirty-one enumerators, eight members of the core team of the project, and two data processing personnel of NIPS participated in the training to pretest the PDHS survey protocol over a 3-week period in August 2017. Most participants had previous experience in carrying out the PDHS surveys and other household surveys. The data processing staff was included in the pretest to familiarise them with the survey instruments. ICF provided technical support for the training. In addition to discussion on the technical aspects of the survey, the pretest training was designed to train the trainers for the main training. The training focused on key components such as age probing, interviewing techniques, and procedures for completing the PDHS questionnaires by using (1) a contraceptive calendar, (2) completing the vaccination section, and (3) standardizing procedures for anthropometry. The hands-on training emphasised adult learning principles. The participants worked in groups using various training techniques, such as interactive question-and-answer sessions, case studies, and role plays. Along with the enumerators, the trainers administered the questionnaires in the field, provided feedback on the content and language of the questionnaires, and learned the various techniques of training. The fieldwork for the pretest was carried out in four locations focusing on the two language groups (Urdu and Sindhi). These locations were (1) Gujar Khan Tehsil in Rawalpindi, Punjab; (2) Haveli in Abbottabad, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa; (3) Panjaar in Kahuta Tehsil, Punjab; and (4) Sukkur in Sindh. Each team carried out the pretest in both an urban and a rural location. Following the fieldwork, a debriefing session was held with the pretest field staff. The questionnaires were modified based on lessons drawn from the exercise. 1.6 TRAINING OF FIELD STAFF The main training of the 2017-18 PDHS started on 23 October 2017 in Islamabad.