or younger when they went abroad (Table 17.16). ▪ The age pattern of emigration is the same among urban and rural emigrants. ▪ Fifty-seven percent of emigrants had a secondary or higher education at the time of their emigration. Table 17.17 presents data on people’s reasons for emigrating according to the urban/rural status of the household from which they emigrated. The vast majority of emigrants went abroad to pursue better economic opportunities (88%). Although emigrants from both urban and rural areas are most likely to emigrate for better economic opportunities, emigrants from urban areas are somewhat more likely to have other reasons for emigrating; 13% of urban emigrants moved for marriage or to accompany family, and 5% emigrated to study abroad. Migration • 335 17.4 REMITTANCES Out-migrants and emigrants may send money back to their families (remittances). They also sometimes receive money from their families. In the 2017-18 PDHS, households that had someone who had migrated to another district or city within Pakistan or had migrated to another country within the previous 10 years were asked whether they had received remittances from the migrant/emigrant in the year preceding the survey. The survey did not collect information on the actual amount received. Table 17.18 presents data on the percentage of households that received remittances from migrants. Overall, 23% of households with at least one out-migrant within Pakistan received remittances during the year preceding the survey. Fortythree percent of households with at least one emigrant received remittances from abroad. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ In Azad Jammu and Kashmir, half of households with an out-migrant and three-quarters of households with an emigrant abroad received remittances in the year before the survey, proportions that were far higher than those in any other region. ▪ The next most likely households to receive remittances from out-migrants were those in Gilgit Baltistan (30%), Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (28%), and FATA (26%). The next most likely to receive remittances from emigrants abroad were households in FATA (68%). ▪ Households in ICT Islamabad (13%), Sindh (16%), and Balochistan (17%) are least likely to receive remittances from out-migrants, while households in Sindh are least likely to receive remittances from emigrants abroad (14%). ▪ In most regions, rural households are more likely to receive remittances than urban households. In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, however, rural and urban households are about equally likely to receive remittances. ▪ Interestingly, the proportion of households receiving remittances from