development, youth development, population welfare, and social welfare. The establishment of local governments within the provinces has been the cornerstone of the devolution process. While all four provinces have passed legislative acts,48 local governments are not fully functional. This is problematic, as local governments have a significant role to play in providing services at the grassroots level. Moreover, Pakistan’s provinces remain ill-equipped to handle administrative burdens, especially in terms of education and health services, resulting in a governance gap. By removing these subjects from the federal umbrella, and financing provinces without sufficient policy frameworks, checks and accountability, the devolution process may be regarded as weakening the federation without necessarily strengthening the provinces. Another important development to highlight is the 25th Constitutional Amendment (2018), which sanctioned the merger of the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) into the neighbouring province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in 2019. The Government considers the merger one of the most significant political reforms in Pakistan’s history, paving the way for an unprecedented extension of constitutional rights and governance structures to 5 million of the poorest people in Pakistan.49 While local government elections in the region were planned for 2019, these were postponed indefinitely. At the time of writing in May 2020, local government elections in the Merged Districts had yet to be held. Pakistan was one of the first countries to commit to implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 17 SDGs in October 2015. In 2018, the National Economic Council approved Pakistan’s National SDG Framework. Effective implementation of the 2030 Agenda in Pakistan 48 The Punjab Local Government Act (PLGA) 2019 (repealing the previous 2013 Act), the Punjab Village Panchayats and Neighbourhood Councils Act 2019, the Sindh Local Government (Third Amendment) Act 2016, the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Local Government (Amendment) Act 2019, and the Balochistan Local Government (Amendment) Act 2019. 49 United Nations Development Programme, FATA Governance Project, UNDP, Islamabad, 2020, <https://www.pk.undp.org/content/pakistan/en/ home/projects/fata-governance-project.html>, accessed 4 May 2020. Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 34 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 35 hinges on the effectiveness of the local government system in embedding the SDGs at the grassroots level. Achieving the goals ultimately depends on the ability of local and provincial governments to promote integrated, inclusive and sustainable development.50 Public expenditure:51 To determine public expenditure on children in Pakistan, this report analyses spending on education, health and