small populations are oversampled. For example, let’s say that you have enough money to interview 12,364 ever-married women and want to produce results that are representative of Pakistan (excluding AJK and GB) and its regions (as in Table 3.1.1). However, the total population of Pakistan (excluding AJK and GB) is not evenly distributed among the regions: some regions, such as Punjab, are heavily populated while others, such as ICT Islamabad are not. Thus, ICT Islamabad must be oversampled. A sampling statistician determines how many ever-married women should be interviewed in each region in order to get reliable statistics. The blue column (1) in the table at the right shows the actual number of ever-married women interviewed in each region. Within the regions, the number of ever-married women interviewed ranges from 1,012 in FATA to 3,400 in Punjab. The number of interviews is sufficient to get reliable results in each region. With this distribution of interviews, some regions are overrepresented and some regions are underrepresented. For example, the population in Punjab is about 54% of the population in Pakistan (excluding AJK and GB), while ICT Islamabad’s population contributes only 1% of the population in Pakistan (excluding AJK and GB). But as the blue column shows, the number of ever-married women interviewed in Punjab accounts for only about 27% of the total sample of ever-married women interviewed (3,400 / 12,364) and the number of ever-married women interviewed in ICT Islamabad accounts for 9% of the total sample of ever-married women interviewed (1,111 / 12,364). This unweighted distribution of ever-married women does not accurately represent the population. In order to get statistics that are representative of Pakistan (excluding AJK and GB), the distribution of the ever-married women in the sample needs to be weighted (or mathematically adjusted) such that it resembles the true distribution in the Pakistan (excluding AJK and GB). Ever-married women from a small region, like ICT Islamabad, should only contribute a small amount to the national total. Ever-married women from a large region, like Punjab, should contribute much more. Therefore, DHS statisticians mathematically calculate a “weight” which is used to adjust the number of ever-married women from each region so that each region’s contribution to the total is proportional to the actual population of the region. The numbers in the purple column (2) represent the “weighted” values. The weighted values can be smaller or larger than the unweighted values at