such as pneumonia, diarrhoea, malaria, and measles, and also chronic malnutrition, among children age 2 months to 5 years. The 2017-18 Demographic and Health Survey in Pakistan (2017-18 PDHS) collected information on birth weight, immunisation status, and prevalence and treatment of the common childhood illnesses of diarrhoea, acute respiratory infection (ARI), and fever. Birth weight was assessed for all live births in the 5 years preceding the survey. Because appropriate sanitary practices help prevent and reduce the severity of diarrhoeal disease, information was also collected on the disposal of children’s faecal matter. This survey records the current status of important parameters of child health to enable policy makers to formulate future strategies for improving health care within the country. A 184 • Child Health 10.1 BIRTH WEIGHT Low birth weight Percentage of births with a reported birth weight < 2.5 kilograms regardless of gestational age Sample: Live births in the 5 years before the survey that have a reported birth weight, from either a written record or else a mother’s report Information on birth weight or size at birth is important for the design and implementation of public health programs aimed at reducing neonatal and infant mortality. A child’s birth weight, or size at birth, not only indicates the child’s vulnerability to the risk of childhood illnesses but also defines the child’s chances of survival. A birth weight less than 2.5 kilograms is an important indicator of poor health and nutritional status of children at birth. In Pakistan, among children who had their birth weight reported, more than one-fifth (22%) had a low birth weight, a finding that policy makers and programme managers must take seriously. The survey also provided information on the mothers’ estimates of their baby’s size at birth. A majority (81%) of the infants born alive in the 5 years before the survey were perceived by their mothers to be of average or larger weight at birth (Table 10.1). Patterns by background characteristics ▪ One-third (34%) of live births to mother’s under age 20 had a low birth weight compared with onefifth (21%) of births to mothers age 20-34. ▪ Babies of high birth order are more likely to be of low birth weight. Twenty-five percent of live births with a birth order of 6 or higher had a low birth weight compared with 21% of those with a birth order of 2-5. ▪ Babies born to