percent) and falls further at the upper secondary level (28.9 percent). Girls from the province’s poorest households are clearly greatly disadvantaged, as demonstrated by their extremely low NAR at the lower secondary (10.2 percent) and upper secondary levels (5.5 percent). Primary NAR in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, according to MICS 2017 data, is 58 percent, while secondary NAR is 42.1 percent, and only 9.9 percent for girls from the poorest backgrounds. In Gilgit-Baltistan, primary NAR (49.4 percent) falls considerably at the secondary level (34.8 percent), and stands at only 15 percent for girls from the region’s poorest households. Pakistan’s effective transition rate (ETR) between primary and middle school is 84 percent, marking an improvement from 78 percent in 2012–13.134 However, it is less than 80 percent in Sindh, Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s Merged Districts – a concerning trend as the primary NAR in these regions is already low. Low NAR coupled with a low transition rate translates into a considerable proportion of the school age population being excluded from the formal education system at a very early stage. At present, primary schools outnumber cumulative middle and high/ secondary schools by a ratio of 5 to 2. The disparity in numbers means that students are forced to travel further from their homes to access schooling beyond the primary level. This has repeatedly been documented in education research and identified as an important reason for both lower retention rates, as well as the persistent gender gap at the middle and high school levels.135 Primary GPI currently stands at 0.92,136 but declines further to 0.89 at the middle and secondary levels. The youth literacy GPI is only 0.81, suggesting – as with other education indicators discussed above – that access to education is more limited for girls than for boys. The GPI in Islamabad Capital Territory is over 1 at the primary, middle and secondary education levels – the best performance in the country. The Merged Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has the lowest GPI in the country, of 0.48 at the primary level, and 0.24 at the middle/secondary level. Rural Sindh’s middle/secondary GPI is one of the lowest in the country (0.38). To illustrate the challenge of post-primary retention in the public school system, the Punjab Education Sector Plan 2019–2024 calculates that for every 100 students enrolled in Katchi, only 28 students remain until Class 10 in government schools. The main reasons for low retention