Punjab, Lahore, 2019. DEVELOPMENTS IN PROVINCIAL EDUCATION SECTOR POLICIES The Punjab School Education Sector Plan (PSESP) 2013–2017 was developed as a guiding instrument on the Government of Punjab’s policy priorities for the education sector and strategic plans for addressing sectoral challenges. While some targets set by the PSESP were achieved during the course of its implementation, a number of targets were not. Achievements include improved school facilities, considerable improvements in teacher attendance, a marked increase in retention rates – especially for girls – and, above all, innovative partnerships with private sector players to improve the quality of education service delivery. Following on from the PSESP 2013–17, Punjab developed its New Deal 2018–2023, which outlines the Punjab School Education Department’s objectives in several areas to address issues of access, quality, equity and governance in the provincial education landscape. The New Deal’s ambitious goals include: transforming teachers’ effectiveness; reforming post-primary education; improving access, retention and equity; scalingup pre-primary education; improving governance; and enhancing public-private engagement. The department also recently developed the Punjab Education Sector Plan 2019–24, whose approach is aligned with the New Deal. The plan focuses on three overarching strategic areas: quality and learning outcomes; access, retention and equity; and governance and management. Another important development is the establishment of the Punjab Education Initiatives Management Authority (PEIMA), under the PEIMA Act 2018, to manage the Public Schools Support Programme (PSSP). Through the programme, the Punjab School Education Department has subcontracted the management and operation of 4,200 public schools to private sector partners. Some 600,000 children are currently covered by this programme. Sindh’s School Education and Literacy Department (SELD) has prepared the School Education Sector Plan and Roadmap for Sindh (2019–2024), which highlights eight priority programmes for achieving education objectives under three broad areas: equitable access, quality and learning, and governance and management. The eight priority programmes are: (i) out-of-school children and illiterate youth, under which non-formal education features as an important alternative learning pathway; (ii) the equitable and adequate provision of school infrastructure; (iii) equitable enrolment and retention; (iv) merit-based teacher recruitment, qualifications and professional development; (v) quality inputs and processes; (vi) professional education leadership and management; (vii) improved resource allocation and utilization; and (viii) effective strategic planning and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of SELD interventions. Recent developments in Sindh also include the formulation of an Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) Policy 2017. Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Education Sector Plan (ESP) 2020-25