in place, and very few vital statistics generated from the civil registration systems. The assessments called for the promotion of CRVS in the country with formulation of strong coordination mechanisms with all relevant ministries, departments and partners at national and provincial levels for the development and adoption of a uniform CRVS law in place of current fragmented laws. Consequently, a high-level coordination mechanism, namely the National CRVS Steering and Coordination Committee was established in September 2014. The Committee identified key thematic areas for the development of a National CRVS Strategy as: (i) legal framework; (ii) resources for civil registration; (iii) registration practices, coverage and completeness; (iv) death certification and cause of death; (v) ICD mortality coding practices; and (vi) data access, use and quality checks. Furthermore, a Technical Support Unit for CRVS was established in October 2017 to oversee and facilitate the CRVS development process. In order to improve CRVS system in Pakistan, NADRA has taken initiatives such as a new project, “Digital Birth Registration” (DBR) project, was launched to improve the birth registration rate, using mobile technology for civil registration certificates. The project has been designed to ensure universal birth registration for children in target districts by 2024, primarily through improved governance structures and the use of specially designed information and communications technologies.156 VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN AND CHILDREN For the purpose of this analysis, ‘violence’ is used to denote all forms of harm to children,157 whether physical, psychological or sexual. It is taken to encompass both physical and/or non-physical harm, as well as intentional and/or non-intentional harm, such as neglect and psychological maltreatment. It also includes exploitation and harmful practices. Psychological aggression, physical punishment or violent behaviour: New MICS data from Punjab in 2018 show that 80.8 percent of children between 1 and 14 years old have experienced physical punishment and/or psychological aggression by caregivers in the month preceding the survey. When compared to Punjab MICS data from 2014, it suggests that prevalence of violent behaviour remains stagnant for the last 4-years when it was 81 percent. Experiences of such violence continue to be pervasive in Punjab, cutting across all socioeconomic cohorts and geographic locations – with similar rates evident across urban and rural areas, among girls and boys, and across wealth quintiles. In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, MICS 2017 reports rates of violence are widespread. Among children between 1 and 14 years old, 81 percent were subjected to at least