assessment and evaluation allow identification of subgroups of the child population that are at increased risk of faltered growth, disease, impaired mental development, and death. T 210 • Nutrition of Children and Women 11.1.1 Measurement of Nutritional Status among Young Children The 2017-18 PDHS measured the height and weight of eligible children under age 5 in a subsample of one-third of households. Weight measurements were taken using lightweight SECA infant scales with a digital display (model no. SECA 878U), which were designed and supplied by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). Height was measured with a standard measuring board (Shorr Board®). Recumbent length (lying down) was measured for children younger than age 24 months; standing height was measured for older children. Children’s height/length, weight, and age data were used to calculate three indices: height-for-age, weightfor-height, and weight-for-age. Each of these indices provides information about growth and body composition that is useful in assessing nutritional status. As indicated in the shaded boxes that follow, stunting, or low height-for-age, is a sign of chronic undernutrition that reflects failure to receive adequate nutrition over a long period. The most direct causes are (1) not eating enough or eating foods that lack growth-promoting nutrients and (2) recurrent infections or chronic diseases that cause poor nutrient intake, absorption, or utilisation. Wasting, or low weight-for-height, is a measure of acute undernutrition. It represents a failure to receive adequate nutrition in the period immediately before the survey. Wasting may result from inadequate food intake or from a recent episode of illness causing weight loss. Overweight and obesity, or high weight-for-height, results from an imbalance between energy consumed (too much) and energy expended (too little). Overweight and obesity are now problems for children in many countries. Weight-for-age is a composite index of height-for-age and weight-for-height. It includes both acute (wasting) and chronic (stunting) undernutrition and is an indicator of overall undernutrition. Stunting (assessed via height-for-age) Height-for-age is a measure of linear growth retardation and cumulative growth deficits. Children whose height-for-age Z-score is below minus two standard deviations (-2 SD) from the median of the reference population are considered short for their age (stunted), or chronically undernourished. Children who are below minus three standard deviations (-3 SD) are considered severely stunted. Sample: Children under age 5 Wasting (assessed via weight-for-height) The weight-for-height index measures body mass in relation to body height or length and describes current nutritional status. Children