COVID-19, 2020. violence against women appears to have increased in many countries, as detailed in the policy brief on the impact of COVID-19 on women.173 Just as the combined effect of school closures and economic distress is likely to force more children to drop out of school in Pakistan, the same factors may force children into child labour and child marriage. Similarly, a combination of the above situations including limited opportunities for play will put more children under psychological distress with effects on their mental and psychosocial health. A rapid study174 was conducted to understand how confinement impacts children’s experiences of violent discipline at home and perceptions around use of violence. Results indicate that the increase in perceived violence is high as unequal access to education opportunities and uncertainty in income levels are source of stress for caregivers. Figure 12: Main sources of stress for caregivers and perception that other people are screaming at/hitting/slapping children more now than before COVID-19 173 United Nations, Policy Brief: The Impact of COVID-19 on Women, UN, New York, April 2020, <https://www.unwomen.org/en/digital-library/ publications/2020/04/policy-brief-the-impact-of-covid-19-on-women>, accessed 4 May 2020. 174 MAGENTA, COVID-19 Task force, Impact of Confinement Study on Violence Against Children in Pakistan, Rapid Response Survey (Wave 1June 2020). The survey was conducted for UNICEF. Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 112 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 113 Figure 13: Perception of protection of young people once the coronavirus situation is under control Response: Pakistan’s governments and development partners have largely focused on ensuring infection prevention, risk communication while social protection has been emphasised as a means of addressing socio-economic needs in the context of COVID-19, through cash transfers under the Ehsaas programme for vulnerable groups (discussed above). However, the social protection interventions are not necessarily child sensitive. UNICEF is working on providing mental health and psychosocial support to families and children. UNICEF is also working with youth and children’s clubs and similar spaces as supporting these has critical implications for children’s ability to voice their concerns and decrease vulnerability. Global initiatives launched include the UN Development Systems (UNDS) efforts to work with national and local social services to ensure the continuity of first line response for children, women, and families at risk of violence, abuse, exploitation, neglect and family separation. The UN Trust Fund to End Violence Against Women (UNTF EVAW) will act as