and unweighted numbers, see Example 3.) • Among children whose households use charcoal for cooking fuel, what percentage of children under five who had recent symptoms of ARI had advice or treatment sought? There is no number in this cell—only an asterisk. This is because fewer than 25 children under five who had recent symptoms of ARI in households that use charcoal as a cooking fuel had advice or treatment sought. Results for this group are not reported. The subgroup is too small, and therefore the data are not reliable. Note: When parentheses or asterisks are used in a table, the explanation will be noted under the table. If there are no parentheses or asterisks in a table, you can proceed with confidence that enough cases were included in all categories that the data are reliable. a b 3 Reading and Understanding Tables from the 2017-18 PDHS • xxxv Example 3 – Understanding Sampling Weights in PDHS Tables A sample is a group of people who have been selected for a survey. In the PDHS, the sample is designed to represent the national population age 15-49. In addition to national data, most countries want to collect and report data on smaller geographical or administrative areas. However, doing so requires a large enough sample size in each area. For the 2017-18 PDHS, the survey sample is representative at the national level; for urban and rural areas separately; for four provinces including Punjab, Sindh, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and Balochistan; for two regions including Azad Jammu and Kashmir (AJK) and Gilgit Baltistan (GB); ICT Islamabad; and FATA. In total, there are 13 second-level survey domains. To generate statistics that are representative of the Pakistan (excluding AJK and GB) and the 6 regions, the number of ever-married women surveyed in each region should contribute to the size of the total (excluding AJK and GB) sample in proportion to size of the region. However, if some regions have small populations, then a sample allocated in proportion to each region’s population may not include sufficient women from each region for analysis. To solve this problem, regions with small populations are oversampled. For example, let’s say that you have enough money to interview 12,364 ever-married women and want to produce results that are representative of Pakistan (excluding AJK and GB) and its regions (as in Table 3.1.1). However, the total population of Pakistan (excluding AJK and GB) is