of children with symptoms of ARI were given antibiotics. Figure 10.4 Vaccination coverage by region Percentage of children age 12-23 months who received all basic vaccines at any time before the survey 188 • Child Health Children with symptoms of ARI for whom advice or treatment was sought were taken to either a private sector health facility (83%) or public sector facility (20%) (Table 10.6). A private hospital or clinic was the main source of advice or treatment for more than half of the children (52%). Thus people are less likely to visit public sector health care facilities, especially the grass-root level health facilities, such as a basic health unit or rural health centre/maternal and child health centre. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ The prevalence of symptoms of ARI was highest among children age 6-11 months and age 12-23 months (17% each) and lowest among children 48-59 months (10%). ▪ Eighteen percent of children whose mothers smoke cigarettes/tobacco had ARI symptoms, while 14% of those whose mothers did not smoke had symptoms. ▪ Children of mothers with higher education (9%) are less likely to have symptoms of ARI compared with those whose mothers had primary (17%), middle-level (15%), or no education (14%). They are also more likely to receive advice or treatment for ARI (92%) than those with mothers having no education (81%). ▪ Children in households from the lowest wealth quintile are least likely to receive immediate treatment for ARI (36%), receiving treatment on the same or next day, compared with 68% of children in the highest wealth quintile. ▪ Children in Balochistan with symptoms of ARI are least likely to receive advice or treatment (62%) compared with those in Punjab (86%), Sindh (85%), and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and ICT Islamabad (84% each). They are also least likely to receive antibiotic drugs (23%). 10.4 FEVER Fever is a major manifestation of malaria and other acute respiratory infections in young children. Malaria and fever contribute to high levels of malnutrition and mortality. Treatment of fever Children with fever for whom advice or treatment was sought. Sample: Children under age 5 with fever in the 2 weeks before the survey Thirty-eight percent of children under age 5 year had fever in the 2 weeks preceding the survey. Advice or treatment from a health facility or provider was sought for 81% of these children. More than half (55%) received advice or treatment on