Thirty-five percent of the children reported to be average or larger at birth are also stunted, and 21% are underweight. 212 • Nutrition of Children and Women ▪ The prevalence of underweight is highest among children whose mothers are underweight (35%) compared with normal (28%) and overweight or obese (15%). ▪ The prevalence of stunting and wasting among children is lowest (29% and 5%, respectively) among overweight or obese mothers. ▪ Children born to mothers with no education are undernourished compared with children whose mothers have a higher level of education (stunting: 48% versus 16%, wasting: 9% versus 5%, and underweight: 32% versus 8%). The prevalence of overweight in children (6%) is highest among those born to mothers with a higher level of education. ▪ Stunting is high among children from the lowest wealth quintile (57%) compared with the highest wealth quintile (22%) (Figure 11.1). ▪ FATA region has the highest proportion of stunted children (52%) whereas ICT Islamabad has the lowest (24%) (Figure 11.2). 11.2 INFANT AND YOUNG CHILD FEEDING PRACTICES Appropriate infant and young child feeding (IYCF) practices include early initiation of breastfeeding within the first hour of life, exclusive breastfeeding in the first 6 months of life, continued breastfeeding up to 2 years of age or beyond, introduction of a range of solid and semisolid foods at age 6 months, and gradual increases in the amount of food given and frequency of feeding as the child gets older. It is also important for young children to receive a diverse diet—eating foods from different food groups to take care of the growing micronutrient needs (WHO 2008). Figure 11.1 Stunting in children by household wealth Figure 11.2 Stunting in children by region Percentage of children under age 5 who are stunted 57 45 32 30 22 Lowest Second Middle Fourth Highest Percentage of children under age 5 who are stunted Poorest Wealthiest Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Nutrition of Children and Women • 213 11.2.1 Initiation of Breastfeeding Breastfeeding within the first hour of life is important for both mother and child. The first breast milk contains colostrum, which is highly nutritious and has antibodies that protect the newborn from disease. Early breastfeeding also encourages bonding between the mother and her newborn, facilitating the production of regular breast milk. It is recommended that children be put to the breast immediately or within 1 hour after