Skilling Pakistan initiative by NAVTTC. Female enrolment in TVET is low in comparison to male enrolment and informal systems of apprenticeship tend to be more common in Pakistan. Given the size of the youth cohort in Pakistan and potential demographic dividend it presents, there is an urgent need to find paths for skill development at scale by the government in partnership with the private sector and frontline implementation partners. An important aspect of this will be connecting secondary-age education and training to a complex and fast-changing world of work, matching young people with job opportunities, and fostering entrepreneurship. The government has prioritized action for youth, particularly youth employment and skilling, including the National Skills for All Strategy, and the Kamyab Jawan Program launched in 2019. Generation Unlimited (GenU) was established in 2018 as a global multisector partnership to meet the urgent need for expanded education, training and employment opportunities for young people, ages 10-24. UNICEF has partnered with leading public and private organisations to launch this global partnership dedicated to expanding opportunity for young people. GenU is centred on finding new ways to help every young person to get into school, learning, training or employment by 2030 — with a focus on those in the greatest danger of being left behind, including girls, the poorest, those with disabilities, young people on the move and those affected by conflict and natural disasters. UNICEF and UNDP in partnership with the School of Leadership Foundation launched the Generation Unlimited Youth Challenge 2.0 in Pakistan. Source: Developing skills in youth to succeed in an evolving south Asian economy a case study on Pakistan, UNICEF and Overseas Development Institute (ODI), 2019. INCLUSIVE EDUCATION One major challenge Pakistan faces in addressing the needs of OOSC is a poor understanding of the situation and needs of children with disabilities. The country has yet to define a holistic mechanism to protect the rights of persons with disabilities at the constitutional level. It also lacks data on persons with disabilities (PWDs), which is vital for quantifying the magnitude of support they require. At present, there is no standardized instrument for collecting data on disability. Discrepancies in information on the prevalence and types of disabilities in Pakistan demonstrate that the purpose of surveys and instruments used to research disability different greatly. Therefore, their results cannot be relied upon to develop a comprehensive strategy on education for persons with disabilities. In