2.3). A majority of the households in ICT are concentrated in the highest wealth quintile (57%). About 51% of FATA households are in the poorest wealth quintile (Table 2.6). 2.5 HAND WASHING Hand washing is one of the most effective ways to prevent germs from spreading. A place for hand washing was observed in 93% of the surveyed households in the 2017-18 PDHS (Table 2.7). Seventy-four percent of the households had a fixed place for hand washing, and 19% had a mobile handwashing place. Sixty-nine percent of households used soap and water. One in 10 households did not have water, soap, or any other cleaning agents in place for hand washing. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Eighty-nine percent of urban households had soap and water available for washing hands, as compared with 57% of rural households. ▪ Thirty-one percent of households in FATA, 29% of households in rural Sindh, and 28% of households in rural Balochistan had no water, soap, or any other cleansing agent, whereas only 3% of households in ICT Islamabad and Punjab did not have water, soap, or any other cleansing agents for hand washing. ▪ Thirty-one percent of households in the lowest wealth quintile did not have water or any cleansing agents for hand washing, as compared with 6% of households in the highest three wealth quintiles. 2.6 HOUSEHOLD POPULATION AND COMPOSITION Household A person or group of related or unrelated persons who live together in the same dwelling unit(s), who acknowledge one adult male or female as the head of the household, who share the same housekeeping arrangements, and who are considered a single unit. De facto population All persons who stayed in the selected households the night before the interview (whether usual residents or visitors). De jure population All persons who are usual residents of the selected households, whether or not they stayed in the household the night before the interview. How data are calculated All tables are based on the de facto population, unless specified otherwise. Figure 2.3 Household wealth by residence 3 30 7 27 17 22 31 14 42 7 Urban Rural Percent distribution of de jure population by wealth quintiles Wealthiest Fourth Middle Second Poorest Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Housing Characteristics and Household Population • 13 The de facto survey population (those who stayed overnight in the surveyed households) is 77,818; 49% of these individuals