categories (Table 9.4). 9.3 PROTECTION AGAINST NEONATAL TETANUS Protection against neonatal tetanus The number of tetanus toxoid injections needed to protect a baby from neonatal tetanus depends on the mother’s vaccinations. A birth is protected against neonatal tetanus if the mother has received any of the following: ▪ Two tetanus toxoid injections during the pregnancy ▪ Two or more injections, the last one within 3 years of the birth ▪ Three or more injections, the last one within 5 years of the birth ▪ Four or more injections, the last one within 10 years of the birth ▪ Five or more injections at any time prior to the birth Sample: Last live births in the 5 years before the survey to women age 15-49 Neonatal tetanus is a leading cause of death among neonates in developing countries. Often the cause is failure to observe hygienic procedures during delivery. Table 9.5 shows that 69% of women with a birth in the 5 years before the survey received recommended doses of tetanus toxoid injections to protect their last birth against neonatal tetanus. Trends: From 2012-13 to 2017-18, the proportion of mothers whose birth was protected against neonatal tetanus increased by 5 percentage points from 64% to 69%, while the proportion of women receiving two or more doses of tetanus toxoid increased by 4 percentage points from 59% to 63% over the same period. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Tetanus toxoid coverage increases with level of education. Women with no education (52%) are less likely to have had their last birth protected from tetanus than women with higher education (91%). ▪ Tetanus toxoid coverage increases according to wealth quintile. Forty-four percent of women in the lowest wealth quintile had their last birth protected against tetanus compared with 90% in the highest quintile. ▪ In Balochistan, only 27% of live births are protected against neonatal tetanus, as compared with 81% of those living in Punjab followed by 80% each in ICT Islamabad and Azad Jammu and Kashmir. 9.4 DELIVERY SERVICES 9.4.1 Institutional Deliveries Institutional deliveries Deliveries that occur in a health facility. Sample: All live births in the 5 years before the survey Proper medical attention and hygienic conditions during delivery reduce the risk of complications and infections that may cause death or serious illness for the mother, the baby, or both. Hence, an important Maternal Health Care • 159 component of efforts to