tion and referral of premature/LBW infants [11]. Despite improvements in the proportion of newborns weighed at home in the first three days of life in the intervention arm relative to the control arm, the over­ all proportion of home-delivered newborns in the intervention arm who were weighed within three days of life remained low (16.6%). Strategies to improve the likelihood that LHWs will weigh new­ borns in the first three days of life may increase the iNCK’s effect on survival of premature/LBW infants. Second, given that most of the infection-related inter­ ventions in the iNCK targeted early-onset, rather than late-onset, sepsis, a greater impact on deaths from infection in the first week of life rather than between days 8 and 28 was expected. While a significant differ­ ence in deaths attributed to infection during the first week of life in the intervention compared to control clusters was not observed, the direction of effect size was as expected (RR 0.81; 95% CI 0.30–2.18) and a larger study would provide the power to determine if this difference is likely to be real. Indeed, an under­ standing of the iNCK’s effect on cause-specific mor­ tality in the early neonatal period is limited by the fact that VA data were disproportionately unavailable for early neonatal deaths compared to late neonatal deaths. Finally, a trend emerged whereby increasing compliance to the iNCK reduced the risk of neonatal deaths due to infection. Importantly, a similar trend was not observed for causes of death that lacked bio­ logic plausibility to be reduced by the iNCK. Conclusion Harnessing the power of parents, families and commu­ nities is the fourth strategic objective of the WHO’s action plan to end preventable neonatal death [25]. In this study, empowering families and community health workers through providing packaged interventions to prevent and identify neonatal infection as well as iden­ tify LBW infants did not significantly reduce causespecific mortality. However, this may be in part due to challenges faced by caregivers and LHWs in using the iNCK as intended as well as a small sample size. Further research should focus on improving compliance to the iNCK. Author contributions SKM and JD conceptualised this study idea; SKM, LGP, DGB, SS, SA, MH, JD, and ZAB played a role in the study’s design, planning and implementation; AB translated verbal autopsy responses; JD, SKM, AK, and SA interpreted verbal autopsies. JD, LGF and DSF analysed the