addition to a free form narrative. The questions obtained information related to maternal health, pregnancy, delivery, the condition of the neonate after delivery, neonatal injuries, neonatal illnesses, treatments used and events leading up to the death (Supplemental Material). Responses to questions were collected on paper forms. Field supervisors vali­ dated 3% of VAs by re-administering and comparing responses between the original and re-administered versions. All forms were further reviewed by research medical officers for completeness and consistency prior to data entry. The primary outcome was cause-specific neonatal mortality defined by the underlying cause of death. As per the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-10), the underlying cause of death is the disease or injury which initiated the sequence of events lead­ ing directly to death [14]. Additional antecedent con­ ditions or morbidities that increased the risk for the underlying cause of death were documented as con­ tributory causes of death. For example, if the review­ ing physicians determined that an infant died due to an infection but the infant had also been born pre­ maturely then infection would be considered as the underlying cause of death and prematurity as a contributory cause of death. An underlying cause of death using was assigned by two physicians in Pakistan with a senior pediatrician adjudicating discrepancies. Each physician indepen­ dently determined whether reported deaths were appropriately classified as neonatal deaths, as opposed to stillbirths or post-neonatal deaths, prior to assigning an underlying cause of death. A neonatal death was defined as a live born infant who died within 28 days of life (i.e., day 1–28). Subsequently, each VA was independently reviewed by a neonatologist and a pediatrician in Canada with a senior pediatrician adjudicating discrepancies. The additional review was undertaken to facilitate consideration for contributory causes of death. In order to identify contributory causes of death, the Canadian physicians, blinded to the Pakistani review team’s interpretations, indepen­ dently re-assigned an underlying cause of death. For discrepant interpretations of the underlying cause of death between the Pakistani and the Canadian review teams, consensus was reached through discussion. All physician reviewers were educated in the principles of the WHO’s ICD-10 and all senior reviewers had prior experience with VA interpretation. Causes of death were assigned using the coding manual from the Alliance for Maternal and Newborn Health Improvement (AMANHI) mortality study [15,16]. The AMANHI study used VAs to quantify the burden, timing and causes of maternal