milk contains colostrum, which is highly nutritious and has antibodies that protect the newborn from disease. Early breastfeeding also encourages bonding between the mother and her newborn, facilitating the production of regular breast milk. It is recommended that children be put to the breast immediately or within 1 hour after birth and feeding anything other than breast milk during the first hour of life is discouraged (WHO 1993). Early breastfeeding Initiation of breastfeeding within 1 hour of birth Sample: Last born children who were born in the 2 years before the survey Table 11.2 shows that almost all last-born children under age 2 (94%) are breastfed, while only 20% of children are breastfed within 1 hour of birth. More than half of the children (56%) are breastfed within a day of birth. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Early breastfeeding is less likely among children assisted by health personnel at delivery (18%) than among those assisted by traditional birth attendants (24%) or others (23%). ▪ Children born to mothers with no education are more likely to be breastfed within 1 hour of birth than those born to mothers with higher education (22% versus 15%). ▪ Among the last-born children under age 2 who were ever breastfed, 76% were given a pre-lacteal feed within 3 days of birth. ▪ Balochistan has the highest number of children (60%) who start early breastfeeding within an hour of birth. ▪ Prelacteal feeding is high in FATA (90%) and Punjab (89%). 11.2.2 Exclusive Breastfeeding Breast milk contains all of the nutrients needed by children in the first 6 months of life and is the best source of nutrition. It is recommended that children be exclusively breastfed in the first 6 months of their life; that is, that they be given nothing but breast milk. Exclusive breastfeeding until age 6 months prevents infections, such as diarrhoea and respiratory illnesses, and provides the nutrients and liquid an infant requires for optimal growth and development. Early initiation of complementary feeding also reduces breast milk output because the production and release of breast milk is modulated by the frequency and intensity of suckling. 214 • Nutrition of Children and Women Tables 11.3 and 11.4 and Figure 11.3 show breastfeeding practices by child’s age. Nearly half (48%) of the children under age 6 months are exclusively breastfed, whereas 54% of those under 3 months are exclusively breastfed. As expected, exclusive breastfeeding