at all times. Sample: Ever-married women age 15-49 In a patriarchal society such as Pakistan, women’s lives are often controlled by male family members. Attempts by husbands to closely control and monitor their wives’ behaviour can be another expression of women’s subordinate status in the family. Marital controlling behaviours can also be important early warning signs and correlates of violence in a relationship. Because the concentration of behaviours is more significant than the display of any single behaviour, the proportion of women whose husbands display at least three of the specified behaviours is also discussed. Twenty percent of ever-married women report that their husband is jealous or angry if they talk to other men, 14% report that he insists on knowing where they are at all times, 10% say that he does not permit them to meet female friends, 7% report that he frequently accuses them of being unfaithful, and 6% say Domestic Violence • 307 that he tries to limit their contact with their families. Eight percent of women report that their husbands display three or more of these behaviours, while 72% say that they display none of the behaviours (Table 16.8). Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Women with five or more children are most likely (11%) to have husbands who display three or more of the specific controlling behaviours. ▪ Women age 30-39 are twice as likely as women age 40-49 to report that their husband displays at least three controlling behaviours (10% versus 5%). ▪ Women who are afraid of their husbands most of the time are much more likely to experience three or more controlling behaviours than those who are never afraid of their husbands (30% and 2%, respectively). ▪ By region, 22% of women in FATA and 20% of women in Balochistan report that their husbands display three or more controlling behaviours, as compared with only 4% each of women in Sindh and Azad Jammu and Kashmir. 16.6 FORMS OF SPOUSAL VIOLENCE Spousal violence Percentage of women who have experienced any of the specified acts of physical, sexual, or emotional violence committed by their current husband (if currently married) or most recent husband (if formerly married), ever and in the 12 months preceding the survey. Sample: Ever-married women age 15-49 16.6.1 Prevalence of Spousal Violence Recent experience of spousal violence is an indicator of the extent to which domestic violence is a current problem. Fifteen