including the age she begins childbearing, how long she waits between births, and her fecundity. Postponing first births and extending the interval between births have played a role in reducing fertility levels in many countries. These factors also have positive effects on the health of the mother and the child. In contrast, short birth intervals (of less than 24 months) can lead to harmful outcomes for both newborns and their mothers, such as preterm birth, low birth weight, and death. Childbearing at a very young age is associated with an increased risk of complications during pregnancy and childbirth and higher rates of neonatal mortality. The fertility analysis presented here is based on comprehensive pregnancy histories obtained by asking women detailed questions on each pregnancy and its outcome. The 2017-18 PDHS collected fertility data only from ever-married women age 15-49. This chapter describes the current level of fertility in Pakistan and some of the factors that influence fertility. It presents information on the total fertility rate, birth intervals, insusceptibility to pregnancy (due to postpartum amenorrhoea, postpartum abstinence, or menopause), age at first birth, and teenage childbearing. T 84 • Fertility 5.1 CURRENT FERTILITY Total fertility rate The average number of children a woman would have by the end of her childbearing years if she bore children at the current age-speciﬁc fertility rates. Age-specific fertility rates are calculated for the 3 years before the survey, based on detailed pregnancy histories provided by women. Sample: Women age 15-49 The total fertility rate (TFR) in Pakistan is 3.6 births per woman (Table 5.1). Mothers living in rural areas, on average, bear one more child than mothers in urban areas (3.9 versus 2.9 births per woman). Agespecific fertility rates (ASFRs) provide detailed comparisons of fertility by age groups. The ASFR among women age 15-19 is 46 births per 1,000 women, a figure that increases sharply to 171 births among women age 20-24 and peaks at 215 births among women age 25-29. The crude birth rate, a simple measure of fertility, is 29 births per 1,000 population. Trends: The onset of a transition to reduced fertility in Pakistan started in the 1990s (Sathar and Casterline 1998). However, the pace of decline has remained slow. Before the 1990s, average fertility in Pakistan was approximately six births (Shah et al.1986). The results of the 1990-91 PDHS showed a TFR of 4.9 births per woman in the 3 years