remained positive in faeces even after the negative conversion of the viral RNA in the respiratory tract, indicating that viral gastrointestinal infection and potential faecal-oral transmission can last even after viral clearance in the respiratory tract. These finding make the role of having sound WASH facilities and strategies especially important for fighting the outbreak. Response: The stimulus package of PKR 1.2 trillion presented by the Federal Government targets the economic survival of the most vulnerable members of society. However, it pays little or no attention to WASH. However, MoCC has developed WASH Sector COVID-19 Preparedness and Response Strategy Apr-Dec 2020. WASH Sector response is aligned with the overall Government of Pakistan Action Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 126 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 127 Plan for COVID-19 response plan and Global Humanitarian Response Plan (GHRP). WASH sector response focuses on the immediate measures that must be undertaken to ensure preparedness to address the COVID-19 outbreak. It also builds on one of the pillars of Pakistan’s COVID-19 Strategic Preparedness and Response plan i.e. Infection Prevention and Control (IPC). Service delivery will be prioritized in institutions and community places (HCF managing COVID19 cases, isolation centers and quarantine sites, schools-if used as quarantine centres, mosques during Ramadhan) and at-risk communities, especially in urban poor and congested communities, to ensure the functional WASH services such as safe drinking water, gender segregated toilets, hand washing stations, training of health care facility staff on disinfection and waste management/ segregation and safe disposal. WASH Sector response on IPC will mainly focus on all components of Clean Green Pakistan programme. There are five pillars under Clean and Green Pakistan with a focus on behavioral change and institutional strengthening. These five pillars are: Plantation, Solid Waste Management, Liquid Waste/ Hygiene, Total Sanitation and Safe Water. Hence, this reassures and shows high level of political commitment for the cause of clean and green Pakistan, where water and sanitation are integral component. Development partners have also come forward to spearhead WASH interventions in Pakistan in the context of the pandemic. WASH Sector partners are working on a nationwide awareness raising campaign in regional and local languages on the importance of handwashing with soap and social distancing, with a view to preventing the spread of COVID-19. By using FM radio, SMS and local cable networks, the campaign will reach out