low vaccination coverage. The Expanded Programme on Immunization’s (EPI) team has collectively identified priority districts in the country, based on the number of children ‘missed’ by vaccination drives, 83 UNICEF Pakistan, Polio Team. remained on the rise in 2019.81 In 2019, Pakistan faced the worst ever outbreak of dengue fever with more than 45,000 people infected with the dengue virus between July and November 2019.82 Ministry of National Health Services Regulations and Coordination (MoNHSRC) has established Dengue Control & Operational Cell at the National Institute of Health (NIH) and launched an extensive community awareness campaign, particularly Rawalpindi and Islamabad, where dengue cases are most concentrated. Extensive social mobilization, community engagement, and vector control activities need to be rolled out in all the affected areas. Polio remains a challenge in Pakistan and Afghanistan, the countries in the world where transmission of the poliovirus has never ceased. Progress was apparent between 2014 and 2017, when wild poliovirus cases dropped from 306 cases to eight. Since then, however, the situation has worsened, with cases steadily increasing in 2018 (12 cases), 2019 (147 cases) and 2020 (49 as of May 2020). This situation is further complicated by the circulation of vaccine-derived polio virus type 2 circulating since the middle of 2019. As of June 2020, 69 such cases had been detected, reflecting low essential immunization coverage rates across Pakistan. While the virus is extensively spread across the country, most cases are identified in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (63 percent). Of these cases, 71 percent are among Pashtospeaking households, and 61 percent have never received any doses of OPV in routine vaccinations. Although the entire country 81 https://www.thenews.com.pk/print/600776-pakistan-continuesto-face-double-burden-of-diseases-in-2019 82 Government of Pakistan, Pakistan Economic Survey 2019–20. <http://www.finance.gov.pk/survey/chapter_20/11_Health_and_ Nutrition.pdf> and low immunization coverage rates. These districts exist in some of the most difficult areas in the country. As such, they require customized strategies for service delivery and demand generation. Factors that contribute to low immunization coverage in these districts include caregivers’ literacy levels, especially of mothers; socioeconomic status; religious and social pressures; the quality and availability of fixed site and outreach services; security threats to vaccinators and social mobilizers; and the limited capacity of frontline health workers. To overcome such challenges and bottlenecks, there is a need to allocate human resources to remote and underserved areas, to incentivize these workers, to train and mobilize community health workers (CHWs) and LHWs who hail from these communities, and to spearhead