estimated at 11% (Table 17.1); thus, one in nine persons in Pakistan have moved to their place of enumeration (district/city) from another place (district/city/country). Note that Table 17.1 classifies persons as immigrants only if their move from another country was their most recent move. Recent comparable statistics from other nationally representative surveys are not available.2 However, the 1998 population census reported the incidence of in-migration as 8% (Karim and Nasar 2003). The size of the in-migrant population in 1998 was 10.8 million, and it is likely that this figure has doubled during the last two decades. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ There are noteworthy regional variations in in-migration and immigration; the highest level of inmigration/immigration (48%) is reported for ICT Islamabad, where half of the population was born elsewhere (Table 17.1). Also, ICT Islamabad was reported as having the highest population growth in the 2017 census, with its total population increasing from 0.805 million in 1998 to 2.007 million in 2017 (Government of Pakistan 2017a). ▪ Punjab has the second-highest percentage of in-migration/immigration (13%), although percentages in urban areas of other regions are similar. ▪ In-migrants/immigrants have migrated in from both cities and rural areas. Sixty percent of inmigrants/immigrants have migrated in from rural areas, and 40% have migrated in from cities or other countries. ▪ Twelve percent of female household members and 9% of male household members are either inmigrants or immigrants. ▪ The percentage of individuals who are in-migrants or immigrants increases steadily with increasing education and wealth. 2 Pakistan Labour Force Surveys collect information on migration but are limited to persons age 10 and above. Migration • 329 17.1.2 Duration of Continuous Residence “Duration of continuous residence” refers to the period of time since a migrant or immigrant moved from his or her most recent place of residence (district/city/country) to his or her current place of residence (district/city). Duration is commonly divided into short intervals to identify “recent” and “long-staying” migrants. In Table 17.1, in-migrants and immigrants are categorised by durations of less than 1 year, 1-5 years, 6-9 years, and 10 years or more. Recent migrants are those who migrated less than 6 years ago, and long-staying migrants last migrated 10 or more years ago. More than a quarter of in-migrants/immigrants (27%) are recent migrants, while more than half (57%) are long-staying migrants. Fourteen percent of migrants moved into their current residence 6-9 years prior to