women indicated that they make decisions regarding their own health care jointly with their husband, 37% reported that such decisions are made mainly by their husband, and 10% indicated that they mainly make these decisions on their own. Forty-six percent of men stated that they make decisions regarding their own health care jointly with their wife (Table 15.9). A similar pattern is observed regarding major household purchases, with 38% of women making decisions jointly with their husband. The majority of women indicated that decisions regarding visits to their family or relatives are made jointly (39%) or mainly by their husband (34%). Women’s Empowerment • 275 More than 4 in 10 women decide by themselves or jointly with their husband on their own health care (51%), making major household purchases (44%), and visiting family or relatives (49%). Thirty-six percent of women participate in all three decisions, and 39% participate in none of the decisions (Table 15.10.1 and Figure 15.4). Men are more likely than women to report that they decide alone or jointly on their own health care (89%) and making major household purchases (83%). Seventy-nine percent of men participate in both decisions, and only 8% participate in neither decision (Table 15.10.2). Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Women’s involvement in all three decisions increases with age, from 12% among those age 15-19 to 53% among those age 45-49 (Table 15.10.1). ▪ Women employed for cash (47%) and those residing in urban areas (44%) are most likely to participate in all three decisions either alone or jointly with their husbands. ▪ The percentage of women participating in all three decisions is highest in ICT Islamabad (47%), followed by Sindh and Azad Jammu and Kashmir (46% each). The percentage is lowest in FATA (4%) and Balochistan (10%). 15.9 ATTITUDES TOWARD WIFE BEATING Attitudes toward wife beating Respondents are asked if they agree that a husband is justified in hitting or beating his wife under each of the following six circumstances: she burns the food, she argues with him, she goes out without telling him, she neglects the children, she refuses to have sex with him, and she neglects the in-laws. If respondents answer yes in at least one circumstance, they are considered to have attitudes justifying wife beating. Sample: Women and men age 15-49 Women across the globe face many critical problems, and among the most serious is violence. Pakistan is no exception