and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan HIV/AIDS-related Knowledge, Attitudes, and Behaviour • 247 ▪ Knowledge of HIV/AIDS prevention among women increases with increasing wealth, from 1% among those in the lowest wealth quintile to 36% among those in the highest quintile. The same pattern is observed among men (18% in the lowest quintile and 62% in the highest quintile) (Table 13.2). Comprehensive knowledge of HIV Knowing that consistent use of condoms during sexual intercourse and having just one uninfected faithful partner can reduce the chances of getting HIV, knowing that a healthy-looking person can have HIV, and rejecting the two most common local misconceptions about transmission or prevention of HIV. Sample: Women and men age 15-24 and 15-49 The 2017-18 PDHS assessed HIV and AIDS knowledge and misconceptions by obtaining information on common misconceptions about HIV transmission. Comprehensive knowledge of HIV is a composite measure defined as knowing that both condom use and limiting sexual intercourse to one uninfected partner can prevent HIV, knowing that a healthy-looking person can have HIV, and rejecting the two most common local misconceptions about transmission of HIV, which in Pakistan are that HIV can be transmitted through mosquito bites and that a person can become infected with HIV by sharing food with someone who has AIDS. Four percent of women and 10% of men age 15-49 have comprehensive knowledge about HIV (Table 13.3). 13.2 KNOWLEDGE ABOUT MOTHER-TO-CHILD TRANSMISSION Increasing the level of general knowledge about transmission of HIV from mother to child and reducing the risk of transmission using antiretroviral drugs are critical in reducing mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) of HIV. To assess MTCT knowledge, respondents were asked whether HIV can be transmitted from a mother to her child during pregnancy, during delivery, or through breastfeeding and whether a mother with HIV can reduce the risk of transmission to her baby by taking certain drugs during pregnancy. Knowledge about reducing MTCT is higher among men than women (Figure 13.2 and Table 13.4). Specifically, men are more aware than women that HIV can be transmitted during pregnancy (39% versus 21%), during delivery (32% versus 20%), and through breastfeeding (37% versus 19%) and that the risk of transmission can be reduced by the mother taking special drugs (23% versus 9%). Figure 13.2 Knowledge of mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) 21 20 19 9 39 32 37 23 Know that HIV can be transmitted from mother to child: During pregnancy During