friends’ circles, and habitual connections which may also increase vulnerabilities. While online education has become central to the COVID-19 response, it is not only increasing the risk of cyberbullying, sexual abuse and exploitation but also increasing disparities among children who are digitally-enables and who are not. An increase in gender-based violence, sexual exploitation and abuse are also expected, based on the experience of previous epidemics. In emergencies, undocumented children with little recourse to legal protection are at particular risk if they are separated from their parents or caregivers. Lockdown measures come with heightened risks of children witnessing or suffering violence and abuse, as violence by caregivers is the most common form of violence that children experience.171 One in every four women in Pakistan between the ages of 15 and 49 has experienced physical violence since they turned 15 – this already high incidence of gender-based violence is expected to increase in a crisis situation. Women may be exposed to a higher risk of domestic violence due to heightened tensions, stress and anxiety in households, especially when families are quarantined and suffering from adverse economic circumstances or unemployment.172 Domestic 171 United Nations, Policy Brief: The Impact of COVID-19 on Children, UN, New York, 15 April 2020, <https://www.un.org/sites/un2.un.org/files/ policy_brief_on_covid_impact_on_children_16_april_2020.pdf>, accessed 4 May 2020. 172 United Nations, A UN framework for the immediate socio-economic response to COVID-19, UN, New York, April 2020, <https://unsdg.un.org/ resources/un-framework-immediate-socio-economic-response-covid-19>, accessed 4 May 2020. Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 110 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 111 A Youth Perception Study (YPS)175 was conducted to gain a better understanding of perceptions among youth (ages 14-29) in Pakistan with respect to COVID-19 and its associated restrictions. Over 10,000 young people were surveyed through an online or Interactive Voice Response (IVR) survey. Their responses on perceived risk to the protection of young people include losing family, shelter and protection; girls getting married young; leaving school to work; and increase in instances of online violence such as cyberbullying. 175 UNICEF, UNDP, UNFPA, Viamo and Accountability Lab Pakistan, Understanding Youth Perceptions of COVID-19, 2020. violence against women appears to have increased in many countries, as detailed in the policy brief on the impact of COVID-19 on women.173 Just as the combined effect of school closures and economic distress is likely to force more children to drop out of school in Pakistan, the