Concluding Observations and Recommendations for Pakistan in 2016, the Committee on the Rights of the Child was concerned about the insufficiency of the assistance provided to families with children living in poverty and the absence of psychosocial support and guidance for families in need, leads to the abandonment and institutionalization of children. Drawing the State party’s attention to the Guidelines for the Alternative Care of Children (2009), the Committee emphasizes that financial and material poverty should never be the sole justification for removing a child from parental care, for receiving a child into alternative care or for preventing a child’s social reintegration. It is concerned that many children without parental care reside in private orphanages, institutions, including religious institutions (madrasas), and shelters that are sometimes registered with the national or provincial governments, but are not provided with any benchmarks for quality of care or monitored by the State party.166 Though no official statistics are available, conservative estimates suggest that Pakistan hosts over four million orphans with many of them in care facilities167 DEMAND AND SUPPLY ANALYSIS Pakistan’s low birth registration rates are caused by a number of intertwined social and economic factors, coupled with the uneven performance of the birth registration system. Children who are not ‘covered’ by a legal registration process largely live in rural areas; their families, especially their mothers, tend to be uneducated; most are from lower-income households; belong to minorities; are immigrants; or are frequently abandoned children. Higher levels of education among mothers relates positively with improved rates of birth registration. The exclusion of key groups of children from the birth registration system, such as refugees and those without caregivers or living in alternative care, is another leading cause of low birth registration rates. Identities are defined by ethnicity and other sub-groups, rather than state citizenship, resulting in low birth registration rates in rural areas. Parents register their children only when there is a tangible need to do so, for instance to secure school admission. Those whose births go unregistered are especially likely to experience adverse socioeconomic conditions. For instance, at the macro level, children who remain officially ‘unacknowledged’ are less likely to be included in state development policies and planning for social service provision. Child rights and service delivery accountability mechanisms are also disparate, with limited outreach to communities, especially rural communities. The National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA) is the central repository of civil