increasing education, from 51% among those with no education to 7% among those with a higher education. Similarly, the proportion of young men who had sexual intercourse before age 18 decreases as education increases, from 30% among those with no education to 12% among those with a higher education. 13.6.3 Coverage of HIV Testing Services Seeking an HIV test may be more difficult for young people than adults because many young people lack experience in accessing health services for themselves and because there are often barriers to young people obtaining services. Table 13.11 presents information on recent HIV tests among young people. Less than 1% of ever-married young women and 3% of ever-married young men age 15-24 had been tested for HIV in the past 12 months and received the test results. 13.7 KNOWLEDGE OF TREATMENT OF HIV Three percent of ever-married women and 33% of ever-married men age 15-49 in Pakistan believe that there is a treatment for HIV (Table 13.12). Similarly, only 3% of women and 24% of men know where HIV treatment can be received. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ The percentage of women who know where to receive HIV treatment is higher in urban areas (4%) than in rural areas (2%). By contrast, men’s knowledge is higher in rural areas (26% versus 21%). HIV/AIDS-related Knowledge, Attitudes, and Behaviour • 251 ▪ The percentage of women who know where treatment for HIV can be received increases with increasing education, from less than 1% among those with no education to 8% among those with a higher education. The pattern is the same for men (11% among those with no education and 31% among those with a higher education). ▪ In general, women’s and men’s knowledge about where to receive HIV treatment increases with increasing wealth. Less than 1% of women in the lowest wealth quintile know where treatment can be received, as compared with 6% of women in the highest wealth quintile. Among men, the percentage increases from 14% in the lowest quintile to 29% in the fourth quintile and then decreases to 25% in the highest quintile (Table 13.12). LIST OF TABLES For more information on HIV/AIDS-related knowledge, attitudes, and behaviour, see the following tables: ▪ Table 13.1 Knowledge of HIV or AIDS ▪ Table 13.2 Knowledge of HIV prevention methods ▪ Table 13.3 Comprehensive knowledge about HIV ▪ Table 13.4 Knowledge of prevention of mother-to-child transmission