10.6 TREATMENT OF CHILDHOOD ILLNESS In summary, fever (38%) was the most common illness reported among children under age 5 during the 2 weeks preceding the survey. Advice or treatment was more likely to be sought for children with symptoms of ARI (84%) or fever (81%) than for children with diarrhoea (71%) (Figure 10.8). 10.7 DISPOSAL OF CHILDREN’S STOOLS Appropriate disposal of children’s stools The child’s last stools were put or rinsed into a toilet or latrine, buried, or the child used a toilet or latrine. Sample: Youngest child under age 2 living with the mother Safe disposal practices for a child’s faeces include disposing of them in a latrine or burying them. Unsafe disposal practices include disposal in open areas or leaving them in an open space. Unsafe disposal of child faeces has been associated with increased risk of diarrhoeal disease in some settings as well as markers of environmental enteropathy and impaired child growth (Islam et al. 2018). Data from the 2017-18 PDHS reveal that more than one-third (36%) of children under age 2 living with their mothers had their last stools disposed of appropriately (Table 10.12). Forty-four percent of children had their last faecal matter thrown into the garbage, which may increase the risk of diarrhoeal and other diseases. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ An improved toilet facility in a household increases the likelihood of safe disposal of children’s stools compared with households disposing of them in an unimproved toilet facility. For instance, 43% of children had their stools disposed of appropriately in households with an improved toilet facility compared with only 22% in an unimproved facility. ▪ Appropriate disposal of stools was much higher in urban areas (47%) than in rural areas (31%). ▪ Children from the lowest wealth quintile were less likely to have their stools disposed of appropriately (11%) than children from other wealth quintiles. Figure 10.8 Prevalence and treatment of childhood illness 14 38 19 84 81 71 ARI Fever Diarrhoea ARI Fever Diarrhoea Percentage of children under age 5 with symptoms in the 2 weeks before the survey Among those with illness, percentage for whom advice or treatment was sought Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Child Health • 193 ▪ A much higher percentage of children whose stools have been disposed of appropriately was found in Gilgit and Baltistan (43%) and Punjab (42%). This contrasts with a very