in seeing (15% and 12%, respectively) and in walking and climbing steps (15% and 11%, respectively). ▪ Disability by age: The proportion of household members who have difficulty in each domain rises with age, with a rapid increase after age 39. ▪ Disability by education: Women and men with no education (13% and 14%, respectively) are more likely than women and men with a higher education (2% each) to have a lot of difficulty or no ability at all in at least one domain. he 2017-18 PDHS included The DHS Program’s Disability Module, a series of questions based on the Washington Group on Disability Statistics (WG) Short Set of questions, which in turn are based on the framework of the World Health Organization’s International Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health. The questions address six core functional domains—seeing, hearing, communication, cognition, walking, and self-care—and provide basic necessary information on disability comparable to that being collected worldwide via the WG disability tools. 14.1 DISABILITY BY DOMAIN AND AGE The respondent to the Household Questionnaire provided information for all household members and visitors on whether they had no difficulty, some difficulty, a lot of difficulty, or no ability at all in the specified domain. The results, based on 67,586 respondents, are presented in Table 14.1 for the de facto household population age 5 and older. Functional domains Seeing, hearing, communicating, remembering or concentrating, walking or climbing steps, and washing all over or dressing. Sample: De facto household population age 5 or above T 264 • Disability More than four in five (81%) de facto household members age 5 or older have no difficulty in any of the functional domains. Thirteen percent have some level of difficulty in at least one domain, 5% have a lot of difficulty in at least one domain, and 1% cannot function at all in at least one domain (Figure 14.1). Thus, overall, 6% of household members either have a lot of difficulty functioning or cannot function at all in at least one of the specified domains. Eight percent of household members age 15 or above have a lot of difficulty or cannot function at all in at least one domain. Walking or climbing steps (3%) and seeing (2%) are the two domains in which household members age 5 or above most often reported having a lot of difficulty or not being able to function at all. The proportion