after birth. Two in five newborns (41%) had a postnatal check within the first hour of life. Thirty-five percent of newborns did not receive any postnatal check during the first 2 days after birth (Table 9.12). Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Early postnatal care decreases as birth order increases; 71% of first births received a postnatal check during the first 2 days after birth, as compared with only 51% of births of order six and higher. ▪ Eighty-six percent of babies born to women with higher education received postnatal care within the first 2 days after birth, compared with only 50% of babies born to women with no education. ▪ Babies born to women in the lowest wealth quintile were much less likely (46%) to receive postnatal care within 2 days of birth than babies born to women in the highest quintile (88%). ▪ Among regions, only 34% of newborns residing in Balochistan received postnatal care during the first 2 days after birth, compared with 77% of newborns in ICT Islamabad. Type of provider Fifty-nine percent of newborns received their first postnatal check from a doctor, nurse, midwife, lady health visitor, or community midwife. The proportion of newborns with a postnatal check by these providers was higher among first births (69%), those whose mothers had higher education (85%), and those born to mothers in the highest wealth quintile (86%) (Table 9.13). 9.5.3 NEWBORN CARE PRACTICES Table 9.14 shows the types of functions often performed for newborns during the first 2 days after birth. Sixty-four percent of infants born in the 2 years preceding the survey had their umbilical cord examined, and 46% had their temperature measured. Forty-five percent were counselled on breastfeeding, and more than one fourth of mothers received counselling on newborn danger signs (27%) and were observed while breastfeeding (26%). Only 19% of newborns were weighed during the first 2 days after their birth. Fiftyeight percent of newborns had at least two signal functions performed. In addition to these functions, other important newborn care practices are recommended to prevent hypothermia. As Table 9.15 shows, only 11% of newborns were put immediately after birth on the bare skin of the mother’s chest. Nearly 1 in 10 newborns’ bare skin was touching their mother’s bare skin (9%). 164 • Maternal Health Care 9.5.4 PREGNANCY OUTCOMES The possible outcomes of a pregnancy are a live birth, a stillbirth, a miscarriage, or