their own earnings, and 21% decide on their husband’s earnings (Table 15.3). Sixty-eight percent of women who earn about the same as their husband jointly decide how to use their earnings, while 76% jointly decide on the use of their husband’s earnings. In cases in which the husband has no cash earnings or does not work, 46% of women have independent control over their own incomes. Only 3% of women who work but have no cash earnings are the main decision makers with regard to their husband’s earnings. 15.5 WOMEN’S AND MEN’S OWNERSHIP OF ASSETS Ownership of a house or land Respondents who own a house or land, whether alone or jointly with someone else. Sample: Women and men age 15-49 Ownership of assets, particularly high-value assets, has many beneficial effects for households, including protection against financial ruin. Women’s individual ownership of assets provides economic empowerment and protection in the case of marital dissolution or abandonment. Ninety-seven percent of women did not inherit land or a house, while 1% each inherited agricultural land and a house. Less than 1% of women inherited non-agricultural plots or residential plots (Table 15.4). It is not common in Pakistan for women to inherit property. Gilgit Baltistan has the highest proportion of women inheriting agricultural land (3%). Women’s Empowerment • 273 Women are much less likely to own a house (3%) or land (2%) than men (72% and 27%, respectively) (Tables 15.5.1 and 15.5.2, and Figure 15.3). Patterns by background characteristics ▪ The proportion of women and men who own houses and land generally increases with increasing age. ▪ Rural men are more likely to own a house and land (77% and 37%, respectively) than urban men (66% and 13%, respectively). Among women, there is very little difference between urban and rural residents. ▪ Men with a higher education (79%) are more likely than those with no education or a middle-level education (69% each) to own a house. Six percent of women with a higher education own a house, as compared with only 2% of women with no education. 15.6 OWNERSHIP OF TITLE OR DEED FOR HOUSE AND LAND Ownership of title or deed Respondents who own a house or land, alone or jointly with someone else, are asked whether they have a title or deed for the house or land they own. Sample: Women and men age 15-49 Thirty-one percent of men and 43%