both an urban and a rural location. Following the fieldwork, a debriefing session was held with the pretest field staff. The questionnaires were modified based on lessons drawn from the exercise. 1.6 TRAINING OF FIELD STAFF The main training of the 2017-18 PDHS started on 23 October 2017 in Islamabad. The training included four weeks of orientation on data collection instruments followed by field practice. The 169 participants for the main training were selected through a strict vetting process. Applicants had to take written and computerised tests followed by a personal interview to qualify for the main training. Attendees came from different parts of Pakistan and represented major language groups within the country. Most of the candidates had previous fieldwork experience, and some had experience gained through previous rounds of the PDHS. Introduction and Survey Methodology • 5 Six members of the core project staff and one data processor participated in the main training as facilitators. ICF staff provided technical support during the training sessions. The participants were divided into three classrooms of about 56 participants each. The training sessions included discussion of concepts, procedures, and methodology of conducting the DHS survey. Participants were guided through the questionnaires. In-class exercises were carried out, keeping in mind that involving participants in the training process gives them a better understanding of the training content. Various techniques were used to facilitate the training. These included role playing on filling a household schedule, age probing in pairs, consistency checking for age and date of birth, correcting errors in the pregnancy history table, filling up a contraceptive calendar with given cases, and transcribing vaccination cards. The field editors trained on using the CAFE system. The 2017-18 PDHS interviewers collected data on height and weight for eligible women and children. Two female members of each team were trained to take both measurements. The anthropometry training included lecture sessions, hands-on demonstrations, and practical exercises. Children were brought to the training venue for the participants to practice taking their measurements. After the training and practice sessions, a standardisation exercise was carried out for anthropometry, in which the designated 44 measurers weighed and measured the same group of children twice to assess the accuracy and precision of the measurements. The results of the standardisation exercise were presented. Inter-observer and intraobserver variations of the same measurements as well as the concept of accuracy and precision were explained to the participants.