ƒƒ Balochistan and Sindh have the highest percentage of households affected by severe food insecurity. ƒƒ 94 per cent of children are breastfed, however, 48 per cent of children receive exclusive breastfeeding. ƒƒ The nutrition sector receives relatively small budgetary allocations, making it heavily dependent on donors. ƒƒ Public sector interventions tend to be oriented towards treatment, rather than prevention. ƒƒ Conduct a rapid yet comprehensive mapping of those most at risk of being left behind. Formulate mechanisms during and after the pandemic, based on this mapping, to incorporate provisions on the right to food both in terms of quantity and nutritional quality. ƒƒ Include nutrition-sensitive interventions that address malnutrition among children and women in planning and budgeting across all sectoral development schemes and all Annual Development Programmes. Strong institutional mechanisms and capacities, particularly at the sub-national levels needed. ƒƒ Ensure the continuation of essential health services for the treatment of severe acute malnutrition. Continue advocacy and the dissemination of information on infant and young child feeding practices through the print and electronic media. ƒƒ Invest in a robust, largescale promotion and continuation of essential health services for the treatment of severe acute malnutrition. Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 158 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 159 Findings Risks Recommendations ƒƒ Indicators on minimum dietary diversity, minimum meal frequency and a minimum acceptable diet have all declined over time. ƒƒ Structural factors that contribute to poor nutritional indicators include difficulties in tracking public expenditure on nutrition through financial reporting systems; inadequate systems for monitoring and evaluation; and delays in the implementation of provincial multi-sectoral nutrition strategies. Education ƒƒ Despite investments by provincial governments and development partners to expand access to education, there are 22.8 million out-of-school children in Pakistan. They include 12.16 million girls, 5 million children aged 5 to 9, and 11.4 million adolescents between the ages of 10 and 14. ƒƒ Balochistan has the highest percentage of OOSC (aged 5 to 16), followed by the Merged Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Sindh, Gilgit-Baltistan, and Azad Jammu and Kashmir. ƒƒ Dropout rate is high at 26 per cent in the transition between Katchi and grade-1. ƒƒ More children in rural areas are likely to be out of school compared to their urban counterparts and girls are more likely to drop out than boys. ƒƒ 21 per cent of children