chooses is likely to be affected by her status in the household, her self-image, and her sense of empowerment. A woman who feels that she is unable to control other aspects of her life may be less likely to feel that she can make and carry out decisions about her fertility. She may also feel the need to choose methods that can be hidden from others or that do not depend on her husband’s cooperation. Use of any contraceptive method and any modern method of contraception is higher among women who participate in one or more decisions. For example, the percentage of women using any method increases from 27% among those who do not participate in any decisions to 41% among those who participate in all three decisions. Women who participate in all three decisions are more likely to be sterilised (13%) than women who do not participate in decision making (5%) (Table 15.15). Use of any method is lowest (29%) among women who justify wife beating in five to six circumstances and highest (37%) among those who justify none of the circumstances. Women not currently using contraception are most likely to participate in none of the decisions (73%) and to think that a husband is justified in beating his wife in five to six circumstances (71%). 15.14 IDEAL NUMBER OF CHILDREN AND UNMET NEED FOR FAMILY PLANNING BY WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT There are only marginal variations in ideal number of children according to the two indices of women’s empowerment (Table 15.16). The ideal number of children is higher (4.2 children) among women who do not participate in any decisions than among women who participate in all three decisions (3.8 children), while the ideal number is lower among women who do not justify wife beating under any circumstance (3.6 children) than among those who justify wife beating in five to six circumstances (4.5 children). Women’s unmet need for family planning varies with the two empowerment indicators. Total unmet need is lowest among women who participate in all three decisions (15%). Similarly, unmet need is lowest Women’s Empowerment • 279 among women who do not justify wife beating under any circumstance (16%) and highest among those who justify wife beating under five to six circumstances (20%) (Table 15.16). 15.15 REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CARE BY WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT In general, women’s empowerment is positively associated with reproductive health seeking behaviour. There is a positive relationship