determined Insufficient or poor quality VA data or physicians failed to reach consensus. aAdapted from the Alliance for Maternal and Newborn Health Improvement (AMANHI) mortality study manual (15, 16) GLOBAL HEALTH ACTION 3 Importantly, prematurity/LBW was primarily assigned as an underlying cause of death if a prema­ ture/LBW neonate died from a complication that was specific to prematurity, such as respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) or necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC). However, for any deaths without a clear cause of death, an underlying cause of death of prematurity/ LBW was assigned if the gestational age at birth, based on self-reported last menstrual period, was less than 34 weeks or the birthweight was less than 2000 grams. Given the low reliability of gestational age dating in rural Pakistan, these gestational age and birthweight thresholds were selected to maximize the accuracy of a prematurity/LBW classification only if no other underlying cause was able to be identified [17]. In addition, for any deaths with another under­ lying cause of death, the same gestational age and birthweight thresholds were used to determine whether prematurity/LBW was a contributory cause of death. The VA was the primary data source for cause of death determination. Where possible, VA responses were ver­ ified with data collected in other study questionnaires [11,12], and discrepancies were resolved using the bestavailable, supportive data. For example, precedence was given to the birthweight measured by data collectors over caregiver recall of the birthweight at the time of VA completion. In addition, when a caregiver-reported vari­ able was collected more than once, the value reported most proximal in time to the event in question were used if the values were discrepant. For instance, gestational age was determined using the self-reported first day of last menstrual period which was recorded shortly after birth as opposed to the self-reported gestational age that was recalled at the time of VA completion. Hospital records or medical death certificates were not available for any of the reported deaths. Maternal, delivery, and newborn characteristics were compared between deaths with a completed VA in the intervention arm and deaths with a completed VA in the control arm. Normally distributed and nonnormally distributed continuous variables were assessed using clustered t-tests and Somers’ delta, respectively. Binary and categorical variables were analyzed using clustered chi-square tests. Primary analyses of the effect of the intervention on underlying and contributory causes of death were con­ ducted as complete case