regarding their own health care jointly with their husband, 37% reported that such decisions are made mainly by their husband, and 10% said that they mainly make these decisions on their own. ▪ Attitudes towards wife beating: 42% of women and 40% of men agree that wife beating is justified in at least one of six specified situations. ▪ Empowerment and health outcomes: Use of any contraceptive method is higher among women who participate in one or more household decisions. Also, women’s participation in decision making is positively associated with three specified components of reproductive care (antenatal care, delivery from a skilled provider, and postnatal checkups). his chapter explores women’s empowerment in terms of employment, earnings, control over earnings, and magnitude of earnings relative to those of their partners. In addition, responses to specific questions are used to define two different indicators of women’s empowerment: their participation in household decision making and their attitudes towards wife beating. According to the 1994 International Conference on Population and Development, “advancing gender equality and equity and the empowerment of women, and the elimination of all kinds of violence against women, and ensuring women’s ability to control their own fertility are cornerstones of population and development-related programs” (United Nations, 1994). In addition, Article 34 of the Constitution of Pakistan states that “steps shall be taken to ensure full participation of women in all spheres of national life” (Government of Pakistan 1973). Similarly, the Protection against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Act of 2010 (Part 1) provides workplace protections for women (Government of Pakistan 2010). T 270 • Women’s Empowerment 15.1 MARRIED WOMEN’S AND MEN’S EMPLOYMENT Employment Respondents are considered to be employed if they have done any work other than their housework in the 12 months before the survey. Sample: Currently married women and men age 15-49 Earning cash for employment Respondents are asked if they are paid for their labour in cash or in-kind. Only those who receive payment in cash only or in cash and in-kind are considered to earn cash for their employment. Sample: Currently married women and men age 15-49 employed in the 12 months before the survey Economic empowerment gives women an opportunity for increased participation in family decision making, and it is expected that women who are employed and who receive cash earnings are more likely to have control over household resources. A significantly larger percentage of