disseminate a strategic and accountability framework on quality of care at time of birth. These were disseminated to the provinces for discussion by the media, universities, health facilities and Provincial Healthcare Commissions in Punjab, Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP). Provincial frameworks and plans were produced. The national "Reproductive Maternal Newborn Child Adolescent Health and Nutrition Strategy" and its costed plan were finalized in 2018 with technical support from UNICEF and WHO. Using this as a reference and incorporating new evidence and analytics, Punjab, Sindh and KP developed and endorsed newborn survival strategies and costed plans, including a Punjab policy on home visits for newborns based on a successful UNICEF-supported pilot. With UNICEF support, the Governments of Sindh (all districts) and Punjab (five districts) strengthened health facilities to provide lifesaving services by localizing the "Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea". In 2018, 2,421 health facilities were strengthened for management of diarrhoea and pneumonia using the integrated Management of Childhood Illness approach.5 National measles campaign A 12-day national measles campaign was successfully conducted by the MoNHSR in October 2018 with UNICEF support, reaching 37 million children aged 9-59 months, exceeding initial targets. Despite challenges with funding, cascade training and quality assurance, the high coverage is partly attributable to stronger micro-planning and deployment of 163 people trained in the use of UNICEF’s RapidPro UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES 14 UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES 15 tool for monitoring and rapid course correction. UNICEF worked on the campaign in close partnership with provincial health departments, WHO and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance. Polio During the five annual polio immunization campaigns in 2018, more than 260,000 volunteer social mobilizers identified un-immunized children and referred them for routine vaccinations. Under the Polio Eradication Initiative, UNICEF procured 349 million doses of oral and injectable polio vaccine, supporting scheduled and emergency response activities. Each of the five national campaigns vaccinated 38 million children, and five subnational campaigns vaccinated 20 million children. UNICEF also expanded its successful communitybased vaccination approach to cover all 594 union councils in core polio reservoirs, deploying nearly 25,000 locally-recruited, trusted frontline workers (of whom 87 per cent were women). These reduced the proportion of never-vaccinated children and contributed to the drop from four to two in reservoirs of wild poliovirus cases. Immunization dropout rates are highest among the most marginalized and vulnerable Pakistani children, with huge disparities between