2017-2018 National Institute of Population Studies Islamabad, Pakistan: https://dhsprogram.com/pubs/pdf/PR109/PR109.pdf • Capture the Moment: Early initiation of breastfeeding – the best start for every newborn UNICEF, 2018: www.unicef.org/publications/index_102949.html • "4 Million Neonatal Deaths: When? Where? Why?" Lawn, J.E., Cousens, S., Zupan, J. The Lancet. Neonatal Survival Series. p. 9-18. 2005: www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/ PIIS0140-6736(05)71048-5/fulltext RESEARCH, KNOWLEDGE, EVALUATION UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES 22 UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES 23 REAL LIVES, REAL CHANGE Two years ago, Mafia Bibi, a mother of three, lost her baby when he was only five days old. This was the second time that she lost a newborn within the first few days of birth. Losing her children one after another for unknown reasons was so heartbreaking to Mafia Bibi that she wanted to make sure she didn’t conceive again anytime soon. She turned to her friend Razia, a community health worker — or Lady Health Worker as she is called in Pakistan — for advice on birth spacing. “I have known Razia for several years now, but never really sought her help. Every time I had to deliver, I would travel to my parents’ home, in another village,” she says. “This time when I asked her for advice, she was very kind and guided me patiently. Two years passed by until I was pregnant again.” On Razia’s recommendation, Mafia Bibi delivered her next child at a health facility in Bahawalnagar district, in the Punjab province, under the supervision of a doctor. Her previous children were all delivered at home without skilled birth attendants. Razia also counselled her on how to make sure her baby was as healthy as possible and she is now exclusively breastfeeding her newborn, Mohammad Ramzan, who is one month old. Pakistan has one of the highest newborn mortality rates in the world. This is due in part to a shortage of skilled birth attendants, as well as low rates of breastfeeding, immunization and antenatal care. Many residents in small villages live in poverty, without access to education or knowledge of good health and hygiene practices. Based on age-old traditions, most women rely on advice from the elderly for childbirth practices, which can pose a threat to the mother’s and child’s health. To improve the survival and health care of newborns, UNICEF and partners trained all of Bahawalnagar’s community health workers and their supervisors on how to improve newborn