to deliver an integrated package encompassing immunization, neonatal services and prevention of pneumonia, diarrhoea and HIV. To reach all children, immunization programming will shift the focus to continuously missed children, including those in urban informal settlements. Priority is being given to supporting female frontline workers to reach these children. The goal is to achieve and sustain zero cases, leading to the interruption of virus transmission and to the certification of Pakistan as a polio-free country. UNICEF community-based vaccinators in the core reservoir zones will support the strengthening of immunization and healthcare systems. Ensuring access to safe deliveries for newborns and addressing the high maternal mortality rate: UNICEF is supporting provincial ministries of health to improve access to and quality of care at health facilities and in communities. The objectives are the improved survival of women during delivery, the prevention of stillbirths and neonatal survival rates. Enhanced accountabilities for quality of care among healthcare providers and UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES 20 UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES 21 managers is promoted. Priority is given to high-impact healthcare practices and to working with Lady Health Workers. Civil society partnerships are used to influence positive behaviours among parents and other caregivers, while creating demand for skilled care. The Health programme also strengthens the capacity for planning, monitoring and quality assurance, co-creates evidence, and advocates for increased and sustained government budgets for maternal and newborn care and immunization. Working across sectors: The synergy between efforts to eradicate polio and increase routine immunization enables UNICEF to leverage and utilize existing platforms to serve previously unreached children. The Polio Eradication Initiative’s large team of social mobilizers reaches children within highrisk communities at their doorstep, many in insecure areas or those characterized by low trust in vaccinations. UNICEF is leveraging their access to identify and target zero-dose children. As a result, previously unreached groups of children received routine vaccinations and the offer of the polio vaccine to communities was enhanced, reducing the impact of vaccination fatigue. • Situation Analysis of Children in Pakistan, 2017 www.unicef.org/pakistan/reports/situation-analysis-childrenpakistan • Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 2017-2018 National Institute of Population Studies Islamabad, Pakistan: https://dhsprogram.com/pubs/pdf/PR109/PR109.pdf • Capture the Moment: Early initiation of breastfeeding – the best start for every newborn UNICEF, 2018: www.unicef.org/publications/index_102949.html • "4 Million Neonatal Deaths: When? Where? Why?" Lawn, J.E., Cousens, S., Zupan, J. The Lancet. Neonatal Survival Series. p. 9-18. 2005: www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/