home. Girls are often married off at a much younger age than boys in households from the lowest wealth quintile, as a means of reducing the financial burdens that disasters cause. During and after disasters, women – especially adolescent girls – face an increased risk of sexual and physical violence, alongside as exploitation. As discussed above, emergencies such as climate-related disasters disrupt health care services, severely undermining women’s reproductive health. A 207 American Academy of Pediatrics, Global Climate Change and Children’s Health: Technical Report. American Academy of Pediatrics, Itasca I.L., 2015. 208 United Nations Children’s Fund, The Impact of Climate Change on Children, UNICEF, New York, 2015, <sustainabledevelopment.un.org/ content/documents/2161unicef.pdf>, accessed 4 May 2020. Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 134 to higher levels of emotional, physical and socioeconomic harm.204 Women employed in informal low-wage activities – the leading form of work among the majority of women in Pakistan – are highly affected by the economic consequences of public health emergencies. In addition, as frontline health workers, women are likely to experience greater risk of exposure, alongside pronounced stress and trauma related to the pandemic. As discussed above, mass school closures are especially likely to cause girls to drop out from education. As they take on additional domestic responsibilities, it will be more difficult for them to balance these duties with an education once schools reopen. Domestic violence against women is poised to surge in the context of the pandemic, particularly as household livelihood opportunities shrink and tensions rise. An expected rise in food insecurity in the wake of an economic recession will negatively impact households that are already vulnerable – with a particular impact on women and girls, who tend to be the most vulnerable members of households. Economic distress among households is likely to keep girls out of school and force many into exploitative situations, such as child marriage. As boys are already more likely to be engaged in child labour outside the home, it is likely that growing financial pressure will prompt more families to send their sons out into the labour market at an early age. CLIMATE CHANGE It is those who have done least to contribute to man-made global warming who are carrying the greatest burden of climate change. People in the poorest countries are living on the brink of the climate crisis, and the poorest communities among them are worst