Eighty percent of nonbreastfeeding children age 6-23 months consumed grains, 36% consumed eggs, 19% consumed Vitamin A-rich fruits and vegetables, and 13% consumed meat products. 11.2.6 Minimum Acceptable Diet Infants and young children should be fed a minimum acceptable diet (MAD) to ensure appropriate growth and development. Without adequate diversity and meal frequency, infants and young children are vulnerable to undernutrition, especially stunting and micronutrient deficiencies, and to increased morbidity and mortality. Dietary diversity is a proxy for adequate micronutrient density of foods. Minimum dietary diversity means feeding the child food from at least 4 of 7 standard food groups. By consuming food from at least 4 food groups, the child has a high likelihood of consuming at least one animal source of food and at least one fruit or vegetable, in addition to a staple food such as grains, roots, or tubers (WHO 2008). The four food groups should come from a list of seven food groups: grains, roots, and tubers; legumes and nuts; dairy products (milk yogurt, cheese); flesh foods (meat, fish, poultry, and liver/organ meat); eggs; vitamin Arich fruits and vegetables; and other fruits and vegetables. Minimum meal frequency is a proxy for a child’s energy requirements. For infants and young children the indicator is based on how much energy the child needs and, if the child is breastfed, the amount of energy needs not met by breast milk. Breastfed children are considered to be consuming at minimum meal frequency if they receive solid, semisolid, or soft foods at least twice a day for infants 6-8 months and three times a day for children 9-23 months. Nonbreastfed children age 6-23 months are considered to be fed with a minimum meal frequency if they receive solid, semisolid, or soft foods at least four times a day. Minimum acceptable diet Proportion of children age 6–23 months who receive a minimum acceptable diet. This indicator is a composite of the following two groups: Breastfed children age 6–23 months who had at least the minimum dietary diversity and the minimum meal frequency during the previous day Breastfed children age 6–23 months and Nonbreastfed children age 6–23 months who received at least two milk feedings and had at least the minimum dietary diversity (not including milk feeds) and the minimum meal frequency during the previous day Nonbreastfed children age 6–23 months Sample: Youngest children age 6-23 months living with their mother Nutrition