displaced population crises in the agencies and districts along the western border. Pakistan has been actively engaged in malaria control activities since 1950. A malaria control and eradication campaign was launched in 1961 throughout the country. Pakistan strives to achieve a 75% reduction in the malaria burden in highly and moderately endemic districts/agencies by 2020 and to eliminate malaria in districts of low endemicity in accordance with the Global Technical Strategy (GTS) and the Global Malaria Plan of Action (GMAP) 2015-2020 (Government of Pakistan 2014). This chapter presents data that are useful for assessing how well malaria control strategies are being implemented along with information on availability and use of mosquito nets and prophylactic and therapeutic use of antimalarial drugs among children under age 5. M 234 • Malaria 12.1 OWNERSHIP OF INSECTICIDE-TREATED NETS Ownership of insecticide-treated nets Households that have at least one insecticide-treated net (ITN). An ITN is defined as (1) a factory-treated net that does not require any further treatment (long-lasting insecticidal net, or LLIN) or (2) a net that has been soaked with insecticide within the past 12 months. Sample: Households Full household ITN coverage Percentage of households with at least one ITN for every 2 people. Sample: Households Household ownership and use of mosquito nets (in particular, insecticide-treated nets, or ITNs) is a central strategy in malaria prevention. All households in the 2017-18 PDHS were asked if they owned mosquito nets, and if so they were asked a series of follow-up questions about each net: what type it was, where it was obtained, and who and how many people slept under it the night before the survey. Twenty-three percent of households in Pakistan have at least one mosquito net, while 4% have at least one ITN. Among households with at least one net for every two persons who stayed in the household the night before the survey, 6% have any type of mosquito net and 1% have an ITN (Table 12.1). Trends: The percentage of households with at least one ITN has increased slightly since 2012-13, from 1% to 4%. The percentage of households with at least one mosquito net of any type has also increased, from 14% to 23%. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Availability of any type of mosquito net is higher in rural (28%) than urban (15%) areas. Similarly, rural households (5%) are more likely to have at least one ITN than