with children. After the 2018 General Election, Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI) formed a government on a manifesto that broadly focused on transforming governance through accountability, while empowering people at the grassroots level by revamping social services.215 In 2019, the Poverty Alleviation and Social Safety (PASS) Division was established under the Cabinet Secretariat to implement the Government’s flagship Ehsaas (‘Compassion’) programme. The programme aims to ‘reduce inequality, invest in people, and lift lagging districts’.216 Among other issues, it prioritizes the provision of social protection for informal workers and targets the extremely poor, orphans, widows, the homeless, persons with disabilities, the jobless, students from lowincome backgrounds, poor women and the elderly. With a large mandate to bring all poverty alleviation programmes under one umbrella, the programme proposes 115 policy actions and 214 Carol Watson, Tanya Lone and Valentina Barca (2017). Building on social protection systems for effective disaster response: the Pakistan experience. Policy Brief on Shock Responsive Social Protection Research – July 2017. https://www.opml.co.uk/files/Publications/a0408-shockresponsive-social-protection-systems/srsp-policy-brief-pakistan.pdf?noredirect=1 accessed on 13th May 2020. 215 Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf, The Road to Naya Pakistan: PTI Manifesto 2018, PTI, 2018, <https://www.insaf.pk/content/manifesto>, accessed 4 May 2010. 216 Poverty Alleviation and Social Safety Division, About Us, Islamabad, Government of Pakistan, <https://www.pass.gov.pk/Overview.aspx>, accessed 4 May 2010. seven overarching goals for the multi-sectoral, multi-stakeholder Ehsaas Strategy. These cover four pillars: (i) address elite capture and make government system work for equality; (ii) safety net; (iii) human capital development; and (iv) jobs and livelihoods. As millions of people struggle to maintain their livelihoods and income in the aftermath of COVID-19, there is a need to scale up social protection measures – providing social safety nets and cash transfers, protecting jobs, working with employers to support working parents, and prioritizing policies that connect families to life-saving health care, nutrition and education. The Government of Pakistan, under Ehsaas, has initiated an emergency cash transfer initiative for 12 million poor households during the COVID-19 pandemic. Pakistan’s leading social safety mechanism – the Benazir Income Support Programme (BISP), which provides regular cash support for women from the country’s lowest wealth quintile – is being used for to provide these emergency cash transfers. As of 1 May 2020, over PKR 83 billion had been disbursed to 6.8 million beneficiaries.217 In response to COVID-19, the World Bank’s Pandemic Response Effectiveness in Pakistan Project was launched. Of the US$ 200 million committed under this project, US$42 million has been assigned to existing government