reinforcing the finding that access to education is more limited for girls than boys. Reasons for this include the limited availability of girls’ middle and secondary schools at the community level, alongside household challenges – particularly financial constraints – and the expectation that girls must contribute heavily to domestic and care work.196 On a number of indicators, boys are more deprived than girls. For instance, boys appear to be more affected than girls by all form of malnutrition. 41 percent of boys are stunted compared to 39 percent of girls. While 28.6 percent of children under-5 suffer from iron deficiency anaemia, a slightly higher proportion of boys (29.1 percent) suffer from this micronutrient deficiency than girls. Boys are also more likely to be exploited as child labourers outside the home. Among children aged 10 to 14, 9.82 percent of boys are currently engaged in child labour, compared to 6.4 percent of girls. This may be tied to norms that expect boys to be breadwinners, prompting households to oblige boys to earn an income as soon as possible. A number of other gendered inequalities are worth highlighting. Pakistan’s high maternal mortality rate (MMR) is a particular concern. Although this has improved – declining from 276 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in the past, to 178 deaths per 100,000 live births – it remains a long way from the aim of Pakistan’s Vision 2025: of less than 40 maternal deaths for every 100,000 live births. As discussed above, most maternal deaths are due to preventable causes. Poverty is another key concern for women, who comprise a disproportionate portion of the poor in Pakistan. The highest fertility rates (4.9 children per woman) are among women from the poorest wealth quintiles in the country. Moreover, rates of early pregnancy and childbearing have remained unchanged since 2012–13, with 8 percent of adolescent women aged 15 to 19 years bearing their first child, largely within the country’s lowest wealth quintiles.197 Despite government efforts to address inequity and injustice in access to essential health care services, the key reasons for high MMR, IMR and U5MR are embedded in bio-demographic risk factors (the sex of the child, the age of the mother at birth, birth intervals and birth spacing) as well as socio-demographic risk factors (urban-rural location, the mother’s level of education and the wealth quintile to which her household belongs).198 Practices that expose Pakistan’s children to