UN Development System (UNDS) has mobilized around the movement for universal health coverage (UHC), primary health care (PHC), and the SDG Global Action Plan for Healthy Lives and Well-being for All (SDG 3). UNDS plans to bring these efforts to the foreground using the infrastructure developed to ensure the provision of essential services to vulnerable populations. This will include covering immunization efforts (including polio eradication measures), in addition to strengthening health systems while the pandemic rages worldwide. UNDS also plans to provide guidance on maintaining essential preventive outreach services.105 As discussed above (see chapter 2), the World Bank’s approved Pandemic Response Effectiveness Project – worth US$200 million – seeks to support Pakistan to take effective and timely action to respond to COVID-19 by strengthening the country’s health care systems to prevent, detect and respond to the pandemic. In tandem, it will be used to mitigate socioeconomic disruption106 at the federal and provincial levels. The project, grounded on ‘One Health’,107 aims to provide an integrated approach across sectors and disciplines. It will also draw an extra US$38 million from 104 United Nations, Shared Responsibility, Global Solidarity: Responding to the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19. Report of the SecretaryGeneral, United Nations New York, March 2019, <https://unsdg.un.org/sites/default/files/2020-03/SG-Report-Socio-Economic-Impact-ofCovid19.pdf>, accessed 4 May 2020. 105 United Nations, Shared Responsibility, Global Solidarity: Responding to the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19. Report of the SecretaryGeneral, United Nations New York, 3 April 2020 (draft). 106 World Bank Report #: PAD3826 107 ‘One Health’ is an approach to designing and implementing programmes, policies, legislation and research in which multiple sectors communicate and work together to achieve better public health outcomes. For more information, see: <www.who.int/features/qa/one-health/en> eight existing projects for urgently needed medical equipment and supplies. Moreover, it will support the poor and vulnerable to cope with the immediate impact of the pandemic through social protection measures, food rations and remote learning programmes, alongside establishing quarantine facilities with public and private sector hospitals. MoNHSRC launched ‘We CARE’, a national campaign targeting over 100,000 frontline health workers with the aim to protect and support health workers with the aim to provide adequate Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to health workers, orienting them on usage of various PPE items as per international standards, and creating an overall psycho-social environment of care and support. RECOMMENDED RESPONSE Now, there is a need to focus on three priority areas for health in the context of COVID-19: 1. The public