of COVID-19, monthly Penta vaccinations have declined since January 2020, due to the disruption in service delivery and preventive services. Although the Government of Punjab continues providing preventative services, these have been completely curtailed in Balochistan and Gilgit-Baltistan. A lack of protective personal equipment (PPE) prevented health workers and vaccinators from delivering immunization services. Moreover, a number of vaccines – including Penta – could not be procured once Pakistan closed its airspace in 2020. As a result of the lockdown, some 80,000 children missed their most recent dose of Penta vaccine.80 Infectious diseases in Pakistan are one of the main contributors to the burden of disease. Incidence of communicable diseases tuberculosis, malaria, dengue fever, typhoid, viral hepatitis and a number of other infections caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites 79 WHO, Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean <http:// www.emro.who.int/pak/pakistan-news/who-and-unicef-joinforces-to-support-pakistans-mass-measles-immunizationcampaign.html> 80 UNICEF Pakistan, Health Team remains at risk of polio’s spread, a key focus remains on core reservoirs and 40 selected ‘super high-risk’ union councils within these core reservoirs. These include Karachi, Peshawar, Quetta, Pishin and Killa Abdullah. Serious hurdles facing the polio eradication programme include structural and operational challenges, limited delivery of other basic services, misconceptions and mistrust of the vaccine and the programme, and intricate tribal and cultural norms.83 In its 16th report, the Independent Monitoring Board (IMB) of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative recognized that communities most at-risk of polio are largely those with limited access to fresh water, poor sanitation, and a lack of public service infrastructure, including proper health care provision. These are also the communities most likely to be hostile to offers of the oral polio vaccine. Poor infrastructure and access constraints make it difficult to achieve vaccination coverage in far flung parts of the country. As a result, immunization rates are especially low in regions with remote, scattered populations, including the Merged Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Balochistan and some districts in Gilgit-Baltistan. The poorest segments of society suffer from particular inequities in terms of their utilization of immunization services. Alongside poverty, low literacy rates in remote areas are another factor that contributes to low vaccination coverage. The Expanded Programme on Immunization’s (EPI) team has collectively identified priority districts in the country, based on the number of children ‘missed’ by vaccination drives, 83 UNICEF Pakistan, Polio Team. remained on the rise in 2019.81 In 2019, Pakistan faced the worst ever outbreak of dengue fever