the control arm. Normally distributed and nonnormally distributed continuous variables were assessed using clustered t-tests and Somers’ delta, respectively. Binary and categorical variables were analyzed using clustered chi-square tests. Primary analyses of the effect of the intervention on underlying and contributory causes of death were con­ ducted as complete case (i.e., participants for whom vital status was known at the end of the neonatal period), intention-to-treat irrespective of iNCK compliance. Perprotocol analyses were also performed in which a global compliance score, which took into account how closely each iNCK component was used according to its intended use, was ascribed to each participant. Global compliance scores were calculated using self-reported data on the utilization of each iNCK component as previously described [11]. In per-protocol analyses, cause-specific mortality rates were calculated at varying global compliance score threshold and were compared to a 1:1 propensity-score matched subset from the con­ trol arm. Propensity score matching was used to reduce bias due to potential confounding variables [18]. Propensity scores were generated within each treatment group and were based on maternal age, antenatal care and place of delivery. The denominator for the causespecific mortality rates used in the per-protocol analysis were determined by the number of participants in the intervention arm who met the assigned compliance thresholds. For all analyses, there was no imputation of missing data. Risk ratios and 95% confidence intervals were calculated using log binomial regression and a robust variance estimator to account for clustering. Trend analysis was conducted using weighted linear regression. All statistical analyses were performed using Stata version 15 (StataCorp, College Station, TX). Results Between April 2014 and August 2015, 5286 live births were delivered by women enrolled in the study (2585 in the intervention and 2701 in the control arm) (Figure 2) [11]. Neonatal outcomes were reported for 5233 new­ borns (99%), 2557 (98.9%) and 2676 (99.1%) in the intervention and control arms, respectively. In total, 147 neonatal deaths were reported, 65 in the interven­ tion arm and 82 in the control arm [11]. VAs were completed for 84 (57%) neonatal deaths, 39 (60%) in the intervention arm and 45 (55%) in the control arm. Among the 63 (43%) neonatal deaths for which a VA was not completed, nine families migrated outside of the study catchment area following the neo­ natal death and were not reachable for further data collection. The remaining 54 families were not approached for