sleep under an ITN if each ITN in the household were used by up to two people. Comparing ITN access and ITN use indicators can help programmes identify if there is a behavioural gap in which available ITNs are not being used. If the difference between these indicators is substantial, the ITN programme may need to focus on behaviour change. This analysis helps ITN programmes determine whether they need to achieve higher ITN coverage, promote ITN use, or both. Overall, 2% of the household population had access to an ITN; in other words, 2% of those who stayed in the household the night before the survey could have slept under an ITN if each net was used by a maximum of two people (Tables 12.3 and 12.4). Although 2% of household members have access to an ITN, less than 1% slept under an ITN the night before the survey (Table 12.5). In households with at least one ITN, 5% of the household population slept under an ITN the night before the survey. Only 12% of all ITNs were used the night before the survey (Table 12.6). Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Access to an ITN is higher in rural than urban areas (3% and 1%, respectively) (Table 12.4). ▪ In households with at least one ITN, children under age 5 were most likely to have slept under an ITN the night before the survey (8%). Figure 12.2 Source of ITNs 7 <1 1 1 84 6 Distribution campaign ANC visit Immunization visit Government health facility Market Other Percent distribution of ITNs in interviewed households Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan 236 • Malaria ▪ The percentage of the population that slept under any mosquito net the night before the survey is highest in Sindh (5%). 12.3 USE OF ITNS BY CHILDREN AND PREGNANT WOMEN Age is an important factor in the determination of levels of acquired immunity against malaria. For the first 6 months of life, antibodies acquired from the mother during pregnancy protect children born in areas endemic for malaria. This immunity is gradually lost as children start developing their own immunity over a period of time. The Government of Pakistan recognises that children less than age 5 and pregnant women are high-risk groups and recommends that they be protected by sleeping under ITNs. The government has recently been attempting to provide ITNs under the malaria