Federal Government. Over 11,000 are operated by Punjab’s Literacy & NBFE Department, and 1,800 by various NGOs. Non-formal education tends to be delivered by community-based schools. In this context, accelerated learning programmes (ALP) are a major component, used as a common strategy to meet the needs of out-of-school children. NCHD runs 5,567 feeder schools, attended by 272,289 children, under its flagship Feeder Schools Programme.142 While literacy programmes predominantly focus on providing the adult population with basic education and skills development, non-formal education targets younger children and adolescents between the ages of 5 and 16. Alternative Learning programmes are offered to children who have missed out on months or years of formal schooling due to conflict or crisis. Catering to the specific needs of OOSC, alternative learning provides a degree of flexibility that national or provincial education systems simply cannot offer. Institutions run by Punjab’s Literacy & NBFE Department cater to more than 450,000 learners. These schools are all cohort-based and each is run by a single teacher, often in rooms and courtyards in their own homes. Slightly more students are girls (55 percent) than boys (45 percent), and the overwhelming majority of teachers (90 percent) are women. Once students complete Class 5, they take the PEC’s Class 5 exam, required for students in formal schools to transition from primary to middle school. Once they pass the examination, these children are eligible to enrol in formal middle schools. In 2019, over 12,000 students from non-formal education institutions participated in the examination, with a 96 percent pass rate. However, girls find it especially difficult to join middle and secondary schools because of distance and mobility constraints. Therefore, Punjab’s Literacy & NBFE Department has worked to upgrade primary non-formal education institutions to provide continued access for girls, and to give them the option of taking the Class 10 examination through the Allama Iqbal Open University. The department’s recent needs assessment of all of its teachers aims to inform teacher support and training, delivered through a cluster-based training model. In Sindh, Accelerated Learning Programme for age group 5 to16 years provides access to education to marginalized overage OOSC children and adolescents for mainstreaming and reintegration at primary and elementary level in formal schools. For adolescents, the focus is on retaining girls and children that were never enrolled through accelerated learning programme consisting of a compressed curriculum covering five years of primary schooling (katchi to