at least one mosquito net of any type has also increased, from 14% to 23%. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Availability of any type of mosquito net is higher in rural (28%) than urban (15%) areas. Similarly, rural households (5%) are more likely to have at least one ITN than urban households (2%). ▪ Households in the highest wealth quintile are less likely to possess an ITN than those in the other quintiles (Figure 12.1). ▪ The percentage of households with at least one ITN varies by region. ITN ownership is highest in FATA (12%) and lowest in Azad Jammu and Kashmir (1%) and Gilgit Baltistan (<1%) (Table 12.1). ▪ Mosquito nets of any type are most common in Sindh and Punjab (25% and 24%, respectively) and least common in Gilgit Baltistan (2%). ▪ Rural households are more likely than urban households to own at least one net of any type for every two residents (8% versus 4%). Figure 12.1 ITN ownership by household wealth 6 4 4 3 1 Lowest Second Middle Fourth Highest Percentage of households with at least one ITN Poorest Wealthiest Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Malaria • 235 Source of nets More than 8 in 10 (84%) mosquito nets of any type were obtained from a shop or market. Nets obtained through mass distribution campaigns, during antenatal care (ANC) and immunisation visits, and from health facilities are mostly ITNs. Overall, 7% of nets were obtained through mass distribution campaigns (Figure 12.2). By region, households in FATA (69%), Balochistan (28%), and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (24%) were most likely to obtain nets through mass distribution campaigns (Table 12.2). 12.2 HOUSEHOLD ACCESS TO AND USE OF ITNS Access to an ITN Percentage of the population that could sleep under an ITN if each ITN in the household were used by up to two people. Sample: De facto household population Use of ITNs Percentage of the population that slept under an ITN the night before the survey. Sample: De facto household population Access to an ITN is measured by the proportion of the population that could sleep under an ITN if each ITN in the household were used by up to two people. Comparing ITN access and ITN use indicators can help programmes identify if there is a behavioural gap in which available ITNs are not being used. If the difference between these indicators is substantial,