Prevalence of Sexual Violence Only 6% of women age 15-49 have ever experienced sexual violence; 4% experienced sexual violence in the 12 months preceding the survey (Table 16.4). Three percent of women had experienced sexual violence by age 22, and 1% had experienced sexual violence by age 18 (Table 16.5). Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Fourteen percent of divorced, separated, or widowed women have experienced sexual violence. By contrast, only 5% of currently married women have experienced sexual violence, with 4% experiencing such violence in the past 12 months (Table 16.4). ▪ Women residing in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region are most likely (9%) to have experienced sexual violence, followed by women in Gilgit Baltistan (7%) and Punjab (6%). Experience of sexual violence is least common in ICT Islamabad (3%) (Table 16.4). 16.3.2 Perpetrators of Sexual Violence Seventy-eight percent of ever-married women who have experienced sexual violence since age 15 report their current husband as the perpetrator, while 18% report a former husband as the perpetrator. Two percent each report other relatives and police or soldiers as perpetrators (Table 16.6). 16.4 EXPERIENCE OF DIFFERENT FORMS OF VIOLENCE Physical violence or sexual violence may not occur in isolation; rather, women may experience a combination of both forms, and these combinations of violence can have long-lasting negative effects on women’s lives, health, and well-being. Overall, 28% of women have experienced physical or sexual violence: 23% have experienced only physical violence, 1% have experienced only sexual violence, and 5% have experienced both physical and sexual violence. Women age 15-19 are more vulnerable to all forms of violence, with 33% of women in this age group experiencing physical or sexual violence (Table 16.7). 16.5 MARITAL CONTROL BY HUSBAND Marital control Percentage of women whose current husband (if currently married) or most recent husband (if formerly married) demonstrates at least one of the following controlling behaviours: is jealous or angry if she talks to other men, frequently accuses her of being unfaithful, does not permit her to meet her female friends, tries to limit her contact with her family, and insists on knowing where she is at all times. Sample: Ever-married women age 15-49 In a patriarchal society such as Pakistan, women’s lives are often controlled by male family members. Attempts by husbands to closely control and monitor their wives’ behaviour can be another expression of women’s subordinate status in the family. Marital controlling behaviours can