to marginalized overage OOSC children and adolescents for mainstreaming and reintegration at primary and elementary level in formal schools. For adolescents, the focus is on retaining girls and children that were never enrolled through accelerated learning programme consisting of a compressed curriculum covering five years of primary schooling (katchi to grade 5) in three years. The curriculum and textbooks for NFBE were developed by JICA in collaboration with Directorate of NFBE, School Education and Literacy Department Sindh. This also included teacher training modules on effective pedagogical skills. While Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has initiated ALP and started making financial commitment, the government is spending 28 percent of its ADP on education which is the highest spending on 142 National Commission for Human Development, Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training and PEHLA QADAM, NCHD Annual Report 2017, Government of Pakistan and PEHLA QADAM, Islamabad, 2017, <http://nchd.org.pk/ws/downloads/annual_reports/Annual_ Report_2017.pdf>, accessed 4 May 2020. education by any province in Pakistan. In Balochistan, ALP programs offer a compressed curriculum at primary and middle levels through Second Shift Centres in public and private schools as well as madrassas with maximum 35 students in a single class. Grants are provided for the uplift of the physical and learning environment of ALP centres. The community management committee along with the field teams develop plans to make the centres more conducive for the teaching and learning. Teacher training manual has been prepared by the Directorate of Schools in the Education Department. ALP kits are provided to ALP teachers in addition to training to enhance teaching techniques. Policy promulgation is critical for creating a level of parity between the formal and non-formal education sectors. While the draft Punjab Non-Formal Education Policy 2019 will be the first non-formal education policy in the province, it is not the first in Pakistan. In 2017, Sindh launched its own provincial Non-Formal Education (NFE) Policy in 2017 and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has also drafted its ALP policy expected to be launched in 2020. Training and professional development opportunities for teachers exist but are currently not adequate to prepare teachers to deliver quality non-formal education. Quality of learning in non-formal basic education centres remains challenges. Box 4: Skills Training A fundamental accelerator of transition from adolescence to adulthood is economic security, underpinned by socially approved gainful employment to sustain oneself and a family. Each year, hundreds of thousands of Pakistani young people between the ages of 15 and