other way to perform sexual acts you did not want to Emotional spousal violence: say or do something to humiliate you in front of others, threaten to hurt or harm you or someone close to you, or insult you or make you feel bad about yourself In addition, information was obtained from ever-married women about physical violence committed by anyone (other than a current or most recent husband) since they were age 15 by asking if anyone had hit, slapped, kicked, or done something else to hurt them physically. Also, information was gathered on experiences of sexual violence committed by anyone (other than a current or most recent husband) by asking women if at any time in their life, as a child or as an adult, they were forced in any way to have sexual intercourse or to perform any other sexual acts when they did not want to. 16.2 WOMEN’S EXPERIENCE OF PHYSICAL VIOLENCE Physical violence by anyone Percentage of women who have experienced any physical violence (committed by a husband or anyone else) since age 15 and in the 12 months before the survey. Sample: Women age 15-49 Twenty-eight percent of women age 15-49 have experienced physical violence since age 15, and 15% experienced physical violence in the 12 months preceding the survey (Table 16.1). Women who had ever been pregnant were asked whether they had experienced physical violence during any pregnancy. Overall, 7% of women have experienced such violence, and 3% reported having had an abortion, miscarriage, or other health problems due to violence experienced during pregnancy (Table 16.2). Trends: The percentage of women who have experienced physical violence since age 15 has decreased from 32% to 28% over the past 5 years. Domestic Violence • 305 Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Ever-married women age 15-19 are most likely to have experienced physical violence since age 15 (32%), whereas women age 20-24 are least likely to have experienced such violence (21%) (Table 16.1). ▪ Rural women (30%) are more likely to have experienced physical violence than urban women (24%). They are also more likely to have experienced physical violence often or sometimes in the past 12 months (17% versus 11%). ▪ By region, the percentage of women who have experienced physical violence is highest in FATA (56%), followed by Balochistan (48%) and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (43%). Women in Sindh are least likely to have experienced physical violence (15%).