married women were asked when the first episode of violence took place. Table 16.13 shows when spousal violence first occurred in relation to the start of marriage among women who have been married only once. Among currently married women age 15-49 who have been married only once, 11% first experienced spousal violence within 2 years of marriage, 19% by 5 years of marriage, and 22% by 10 years of marriage. 16.7 INJURIES TO WOMEN DUE TO SPOUSAL VIOLENCE Injuries due to spousal violence Percentage of women who have the following types of injuries from spousal violence: cuts, bruises, or aches; eye injuries, sprains, dislocations, or burns; or deep wounds, broken bones, broken teeth, or any other serious injury. Sample: Ever-married women age 15-49 who have experienced physical or sexual violence committed by their current husband (if currently married) or most recent husband (if formerly married) In the 2017-18 PDHS, ever-married women age 15-49 were asked whether they had sustained some form of injury as a result of physical violence inflicted by their husband. Twenty-six percent of women who have experienced spousal physical violence have sustained some type of physical injury, while 48% of women who have experienced sexual violence have sustained an injury (Table 16.14). The most common types of injuries reported by women experiencing violence are cuts, bruises, or aches (22%) and eye injuries, sprains, dislocations, or burns (12%). Fortunately, women were least likely to report deep wounds, broken bones, broken teeth, and other serious injuries (6%). Consequences of violence Among women who have ever experienced physical or sexual violence, 84% have not faced any consequences resulting from the violence, while 8% have faced isolation and 5% got divorced (Table 16.15). Those experiencing both physical and sexual violence are more likely to face isolation (22%) and to get divorced (16%) than those experiencing physical or sexual violence alone. 16.8 RESPONSE TO VIOLENCE 16.8.1 Help Seeking among Women Who Have Experienced Violence Reporting and seeking help for violence are still not common in Pakistan. Fifty-six percent of ever-married women who reported experiencing physical or sexual violence neither sought help to stop the violence nor told anyone. Thirty percent sought help, and 14% never sought help but told someone (Table 16.16). Domestic Violence • 311 Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Women age 30-49 are more likely to seek help to end violence than younger women. ▪ Women who have experienced both