(vi) professional education leadership and management; (vii) improved resource allocation and utilization; and (viii) effective strategic planning and monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of SELD interventions. Recent developments in Sindh also include the formulation of an Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) Policy 2017. Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Education Sector Plan (ESP) 2020-25 has been drafted and in final stages. The Education Sector Analysis (ESA) conducted for KP ESP structured its findings around three major priority areas i.e. improving access, retention and equity; enhancing quality and relevance of education; and improving governance and management. Balochistan Education Sector Plan (BESP) 2020-25 has also been drafted along with Education Sector Analysis and awaits approval. BESP prioritizes learning, and access and participation as Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 90 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 91 two important policy areas; and identifies improved governance and management and better research and data as critical enablers for ensuring an efficient and effective education system. SERVICE DELIVERY ANALYSIS The two key implications of the 18th Constitutional Amendment for the education sector were: (i) introduction of Article 25-A obligates the state to provide free and compulsory education to all children from ages 5 to 16 years; and (ii) policy, planning, curriculum, and standards were fully devolved to provincial governments. Post-devolution reforms in the education sector have focused largely on improving access at the primary education level. Investing in at the secondary education sector and improving the quality of education and governance at all levels in Pakistan are essential to achieving education outcomes by 2030 for all education levels. With the substantial numbers of out-of-school children of all ages, access continues to be a major challenge and large disparities are witnessed across provinces as discussed above. A high population growth rate makes raising enrolment rates particularly challenging as providing adequate numbers of good quality facilities and teachers for the growing population of children has been major issue in the country. Inadequate quality of education has led to high dropout rates in recent years. Additionally, lack of access to middle schools, particularly for girls, has also undermined the efforts made at primary level and improving enrolments. Provinces suffer from inadequate availability of classrooms in most public schools leading to very crowded classrooms and widespread use of multigrade teaching. Although global evidence indicates that multigrade teaching is a reasonable option to provide