contraceptive methods in Pakistan. Nova, Famila 28, or Lo Feminal are the most common brands reported by 80% of pill users (Table 7.9). The most popular condom brands—Sathi, Touch, Josh, and Prudence—are the used by 99% of users. 7.3 INFORMED CHOICE Informed choice Informed choice indicates that women were informed at the time they started the current episode of method use about the method’s side effects, about what to do if they experienced side effects, and about other methods they could use. Sample: Women age 15-49 who are currently using selected modern contraceptive methods and who started the last episode of use within the 5 years before the survey About a third of current users of modern contraceptive methods (35%) were informed of the potential side effects or problems associated with the method they used; about a quarter (24%) were told what to do if they experienced side effects. Forty-four percent were informed of other methods that they could use. Overall, 19% of all women currently using modern contraceptives were informed at the time they started the current episode of method use about the method’s side effects, what to do if they experienced side effects, and other available methods (Table 7.10). On average, public sector users are better informed (26%) than private sector users (9%) of all three indicators. Proper counselling on method selection influences continuity of use. Users visiting public sector facilities are better advised on selecting a method than those visiting private sector facilities (44% versus 29%) (Table 7.11). Furthermore, public sector users are better informed regarding the use of the selected method (47%), while a lower percentage of women (31%) who visited the private sector were informed about the method. Lady Health Workers are the most active public sector provider informing the users. Interestingly, use of IUDs emerges as a popular method for discussion between users and service providers. 7.4 DISCONTINUATION OF CONTRACEPTIVES Contraceptive discontinuation rate Percentage of contraceptive use episodes discontinued within 12 months Sample: Episodes of contraceptive use in the 5 years before the survey, experienced by women who are currently age 15-49 (one woman may contribute more than one episode) A little less than a third (30%) of episodes of contraceptive use in the 5 years before the survey were discontinued within 12 months (Table 7.12). Contraceptive discontinuation rates are higher for pills and injectables (47% each) than for either male condoms (33%) or