secondary school children (age 10-14) it is 38%. The NAR for primary and secondary school is slightly higher among boys (61% and 40%, respectively) than among girls (55% and 36%, respectively). Gender Parity Indices (GPI) The ratio of female to male students attending primary school and the ratio of female to male students attending middle/secondary school. The index reflects the magnitude of the gender gap. Sample: Primary school students and middle/secondary school students Data on the gross attendance ratio (GAR) and the gender parity index (GPI) is presented in Table 2.14. The primary school GAR is 87%, and the secondary school GAR is 56%. A gender parity index (GPI) of 1 indicates parity or equality between school participation ratios. A GPI lower than 1 indicates a gender disparity in favour of males, with a higher proportion of males than females attending that level of schooling. A GPI higher than 1 indicates a gender disparity in favour of females. The GPI for NAR is 0.90 at the primary school, indicating that more boys are attending school than girls; however, the GPI for NAR is 0.89 at the middle/secondary school level, indicating that girls are dropping out. (Table 2.14). Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Both the primary and middle/secondary school NAR are lower in rural areas (54%) than in urban areas (67%). Fifty-four percent of rural children and 67% of urban children have attended primary school. Similarly, 32% of rural children and 49% of urban children have attended middle/secondary school. ▪ The primary school NAR is lowest in Balochistan (39%) and highest in ICT Islamabad (74%). ▪ The middle/secondary school NAR is lowest in FATA (18%) and highest in ICT Islamabad (59%). ▪ The pattern of GPI in middle/secondary school attendance is lower than primary in most regions. However, in FATA the middle/secondary (0.24) school attendance is lowest among all regions and lower than primary school attendance (0.48). Housing Characteristics and Household Population • 17 ▪ The children in the highest wealth quintile have the highest NAR compared with children in the lowest wealth quintile for primary, middle, and secondary level of education. (Figure 2.6). Reasons for school drop outs The 2017-18 PDHS asked the reason for dropping out of school for de facto households members age 5-24. The most common reasons cited for women are getting married and thinking further education was not necessary (18% each) followed by not being interested