65% of women with a higher education can ask their husband to use a condom, compared with only 31% of women with no education. ▪ The proportions of women reporting that they can deny sex and ask their husband to use a condom are lower in FATA (34% and 25%, respectively) than in other regions. ▪ Women in the highest wealth quintile are most likely to report that they can deny sex and ask their husband to use a condom (73% and 60%, respectively). 278 • Women’s Empowerment 15.12 WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT INDICATORS Women’s empowerment indicators Two sets of empowerment indicators, women’s participation in making household decisions and women’s attitudes towards wife beating, can be summarised with two indices. The first index shows the number of decisions in which women participate either alone or jointly with their husband. This index ranges from 0 to 3 and reflects the degree of decision-making control that women are able to exercise in areas that affect their lives and the level of women’s empowerment in a society. The second index, which ranges from 0 to 6, is the number of reasons for which a woman thinks that a husband is justified in beating his wife. A lower score on this indicator reflects a higher status of women in the household and society. Sample: Women and men age 15-49 The ability of women to make decisions that affect their personal circumstances is an essential element of their empowerment and serves as an important contributor to their overall development. Assessing women’s decision making helps judge their autonomy in the household. The data indicate that there is a positive relationship between women’s disagreement with all of the reasons justifying wife beating and women’s participation in decision making (Table 15.14). Also, among women who participate in all decisions, the proportion who do not justify any of the reasons for wife beating is much larger (44%) than the proportion who justify wife beating in all six circumstances (22%). 15.13 CURRENT USE OF CONTRACEPTION BY WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT A woman’s desire and ability to control her fertility and the contraceptive method she chooses is likely to be affected by her status in the household, her self-image, and her sense of empowerment. A woman who feels that she is unable to control other aspects of her life may be less likely to feel that she can make and carry out decisions about her