15-49 and children age 0-59 months only in those households selected for the man’s survey. The survey was successfully carried out in 561 clusters, after dropping 19 clusters due to security concerns during the fieldwork. These clusters were in Balochistan (1), FATA (2), Gilgit Baltistan (6), Khyber 1 The 2017-18 PDHS presents national data totals for Pakistan that exclude Azad Jammu and Kashmir as well as Gilgit Baltistan. To compare the current data with older data from the 2012-13 PDHS (which already excluded Azad Jammu and Kashmir), the data was rerun to also exclude Gilgit Baltistan. Introduction and Survey Methodology • 3 Pakhtunkhwa (4), Azad Jammu and Kashmir (1), Punjab (2), Sindh (1) and ICT Islamabad (2 restricted areas). 1.3 QUESTIONNAIRES Six questionnaires were used in the 2017-18 PDHS: Household Questionnaire, Woman’s Questionnaire, Man’s Questionnaire, Biomarker Questionnaire, Fieldworker Questionnaire, and the Community Questionnaire. The first five questionnaires, based on The DHS Program’s standard Demographic and Health Survey (DHS-7) questionnaires, were adapted to reflect the population and health issues relevant to Pakistan. The Community Questionnaire was based on the instrument used in the previous rounds of the Pakistan DHS. Comments were solicited from various stakeholders representing government ministries and agencies, nongovernmental organisations, and international donors. The survey protocol was reviewed and approved by the National Bioethics Committee, Pakistan Health Research Council, and ICF Institutional Review Board. After the questionnaires were finalised in English, they were translated into Urdu and Sindhi. The 2017-18 PDHS used paper-based questionnaires for data collection, while computerassisted field editing (CAFE) was used to edit the questionnaires in the field. The Household Questionnaire listed all members of and visitors to selected households. Basic demographic information was collected on each person listed, including age, sex, marital status, education, and relationship to head of household. For children under age 18, survival status of parents was determined. The data on age, sex, and marital status of household members was used to identify women and men eligible for individual interviews. The Household Questionnaire also collected information on characteristics of the household’s dwelling unit, such as source of drinking water; type of toilet facilities; materials used for flooring, external walls, and roofing; ownership of various durable goods; ownership of mosquito nets; migration; and disability. The Woman’s Questionnaire was used to collect information from all eligible ever-married women age 15-49. These women were asked questions on the following topics: ▪ Background characteristics (including age,