Despite steady improvements in key education indicators in recent years, the country still has 22.8 million out-of-school children (OOSC) and more girls are out of school than boys.13 Overall, Pakistan has the second highest number of out-of-school children in the world. A high population growth rate makes raising enrolment rates particularly challenging as providing adequate numbers of good quality facilities and teachers for the growing population of children has been major issue in the country. Additionally, inadequate quality of education has led to high dropout rates in recent years. Lack of access to middle schools, particularly for girls, has also undermined the efforts made at primary level and improving enrolments. Inequities in the education outcomes present themselves across genders, different socioeconomic groups, geographic areas, and within provinces and tend to compound with girls from poor rural families least likely to go to school. External factors, notably poverty, constraining social norms, and ethnic/ language issues also contribute to drop-out and inequities in education and learning outcomes. There are clear disparities in the proportion of out-of-school children between provinces and socioeconomic status as well as geographical location. Within the country, the highest percentages of OOSC live in Balochistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s Merged Districts and Sindh. Although Pakistan’s gross enrolment ratio (GER) at the pre-primary level has increased considerably, its primary net attendance ratio (NAR) declined to 58.5 percent14 – a downward trend evident across all of the country’s provinces. Secondary education fares better, with slight improvements in the NAR for middle and secondary education. Nevertheless, the gender gap in retention and enrolment continues to be a major concern with primary GPI at 0.92, middle and secondary GPI at 0.89 at the school levels and youth literacy GPI at only 0.81. Moreover, despite investments to improve the learning environment, Pakistan still lacks critical inputs. Both low school participation rates and the high number of out-of-school children are directly linked with a poor learning environments and poor learning outcomes in schools. As alternative forms of learning offer children a ‘second chance’ at education, the non-formal basic education (NFBE) sector can help to address the critical challenges posed by a huge number of OOSC. However, Pakistan’s non-formal education sector remains largely neglected and underfunded. 12 Ministry of Finance, Pakistan Economic Survey 2019–20, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad, 2019. 13 National Education Management Information System, Academy of Education Planning and Management, Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training,