around water use, safety, maintenance and conservation is generally lacking in Pakistan and water which appears clean is considered to be safe. Additionally, the notion that water is free and infinite resource leads to no accountability on the part of its users and is due to the fact that water is not generally metered or charged for. At the institutional level, no accountability mechanism exists to curb inefficient water use. Key bottlenecks at the household and community levels include limited availability of water and soap for hand washing, which is highly related with poverty. It is not uncommon for people in rural areas to spend considerable time fetching water as they do not have water facilities close to their homes. This task is typically performed by women and girls, often forced to walk for over 30 minutes through difficult terrain to obtain water for their households. The practice of open defecation represents both a considerable health risk and a protection risk. It enables diseases to thrive, while exposing women and children to the prospect of violence. In poverty stricken rural areas, open defecation is a cultural norm and accepted social behaviour, and not having toilet facilities is common. Most of the people in Pakistan who do not have access to a toilet live in poor rural households or insecure, informal urban settlements are the hardest 188 National Institute of Population Studies, Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) 2017–18, NIPS, Islamabad, 2018. 189 National Education Management Information System, Academy of Education Planning and Management, Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training, Pakistan Education Statistics, 2016–17, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad, 2018, <http://library.aepam.edu.pk/Books/ Pakistan%20Education%20Statistics%202016-17.pdf>, accessed 4 May 2020. populations to reach. The concept of hygienic latrines is also absent in many cases, especially in terms of the construction of septic tanks in urban and peri-urban areas, where most latrines are connected to either covered or open drains. The absence of adequate drinking water and WASH facilities in schools undermines children’s right to access education. This is particularly pronounced for girls, as a lack of safe, separate toilet facilities may prevent families from sending girls to school. The absence of menstrual hygiene management (MHM) facilities, or information on MHM practices is sorely needed to enhance girls’ enrolment, attendance and retention. There is limited participation of religious leaders, media, youth and celebrities in awareness on WASH. The perspective and requirements of WASH financial investment have