and Nonbreastfed children age 6–23 months who received at least two milk feedings and had at least the minimum dietary diversity (not including milk feeds) and the minimum meal frequency during the previous day Nonbreastfed children age 6–23 months Sample: Youngest children age 6-23 months living with their mother Nutrition of Children and Women • 217 Minimum dietary diversity, minimum meal frequency, and appropriate milk feeds together constitute a child’s minimum acceptable diet (Table 11.7). Twenty-one percent of children age 6-23 months achieved minimum dietary diversity. Sixty-three percent of children age 6-23 months achieved minimum meal frequency. Only 13% of children age 6-23 months receive the minimum acceptable diet. Figure 11.5 Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Minimum dietary diversity improved with increasing age, from 9% among children 6-8 months to 28% among children 18-23 months. ▪ Minimum meal frequency is higher in urban areas (69%) than in rural areas (60%). ▪ Minimum acceptable diet increased with wealth, from 6% among children in the lowest wealth quintile households to 22% of children in the highest wealth quintile households. ▪ Minimum acceptable diet was highest in Gilgit Baltistan (28%) and lowest in FATA (7%). 11.3 MICRONUTRIENT INTAKE AND SUPPLEMENTATION AMONG CHILDREN Micronutrient deficiency is a major contributor to childhood morbidity and mortality. Micronutrients are available in foods and can also be provided through direct supplementation. The information collected on food consumption among children 6-23 months is useful in assessing the extent to which children are consuming food groups rich in two key micronutrients—vitamin A and iron— in their daily diet. Iron is an essential micronutrient that plays an important role in numerous biological systems, and iron deficiency is one of the primary causes of anaemia. Iron deficiency anaemia leads to impaired motor and cognitive function, slower emotional development, and poor academic performance among children. Vitamin A is an essential micronutrient for the immune system and plays an important role in maintaining the epithelial tissue in the body. Severe vitamin A deficiency (VAD) can cause eye damage and is the leading cause of childhood blindness. VAD also increases the severity of infections such as measles and diarrhoeal disease in children and slows recovery from illness. Fruits and vegetables rich in vitamin A should be part of the daily diet. Studies have shown that plant-based complementary foods by themselves are insufficient to meet the needs for certain micronutrients, especially iron. Therefore, it has been