for collecting data on disability. Discrepancies in information on the prevalence and types of disabilities in Pakistan demonstrate that the purpose of surveys and instruments used to research disability different greatly. Therefore, their results cannot be relied upon to develop a comprehensive strategy on education for persons with disabilities. In 2014, ASER Pakistan piloted an initiative to document the prevalence of disability prevalence in Pakistan through its householdlevel survey. The 2019 ASER report presents the proportion of schools that report children with disabilities within their student population, and the number of children with disabilities as a proportion of the total number of children enrolled in schools. Over 20 percent of schools reported that children with disabilities are present within their student bodies and that, on average, 0.29 percent of the students enrolled have some kind of disability. The highest is found in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (0.53 percent) and the lowest in Sindh (0.11 percent). At the national level, 22.2 percent of public schools report that children with disabilities are among their students, compared to 16.6 percent of private schools. Punjab MICS 2018 data from Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 88 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 89 reveals that that 13.3 percent of children between 2 and 17 years old, and 6.4 percent of children between 2 and 4 years old, have functional difficulties in at least one domain.143 The Teaching Effectively All Children (TEACh) survey finds that many children with ‘mild’ disabilities are enrolled in schools, whereas children with moderate or severe disabilities are more likely to be out of school. It also notes that children with physical disabilities are more likely to be out of school. This suggests that a lack of basic accessibility facilities in schools – such as ramps, aids and appliances, adapted teaching and learning materials – prevent children with disabilities from accessing schools and realizing their right to an education. The TEACh survey in central Punjab highlights intersectional evidence on disability, gender and poverty.144 Children with disabilities are more likely to live in poorer households – 15 percent of children in the poorest quartile of the survey sample face ‘moderate to severe difficulties’, compared with 7 percent of those in the richest quartile. The survey also finds more boys with disabilities than girls in central Punjab. Most children with disabilities who attend private schools