gained importance in accounting for population growth and population redistribution and has far-reaching socioeconomic implications for individuals and society at large. The 2017 population census did not collect information on the migration status of the population, leaving a data gap regarding the magnitude of migration and the characteristics of migrants. The in-migration module included in the 2017-18 PDHS has narrowed this gap by providing household-level information on the incidence of in-migration, the duration of continuous residence among in-migrants, the direction of population movements (interand intraregional as well as rural-urban), and reasons for migration.1 These data provide the basis for measuring lifetime migration within Pakistan. The 2017-18 PDHS out-migration module profiles the out-migrant population within Pakistan, as well as abroad, during the last 10 years. The 2017-18 PDHS also enables estimation of how many households received remittances during the year preceding the survey, although information on the value of remittances received is not available in the survey. 1 Regional movement refers to geographical movement within provinces and regions. M 328 • Migration Lifetime migrant A person whose place of birth is different from her/his place of enumeration. 17.1 IN-MIGRATION AND IMMIGRATION The 2017-18 PDHS collected information on in-migration grounded on the concept of lifetime migration, which was also used in the 1981 and 1998 Pakistan population censuses. The survey gathered data on place (district/city/other country) of birth and, among migrants, the district/city/other country of most recent residence prior to the current one and how long ago they moved to their current place of residence. In-migrant A person whose district or city of birth within the country is different from her/his district/city of enumeration within the country. According to this concept, a person is considered an in-migrant if his or her place of birth is different from his or her place of enumeration; place is defined here at the district level in rural areas and the city level in urban areas. Thus, in-migrants have moved within Pakistan across district or city boundaries at some point over their lifetime. 17.1.1 Incidence of In-migration and Immigration The incidence of in-migration combined with immigration is estimated at 11% (Table 17.1); thus, one in nine persons in Pakistan have moved to their place of enumeration (district/city) from another place (district/city/country). Note that Table 17.1 classifies persons as immigrants only if their move from another country was their most recent move. Recent comparable statistics from other nationally