breastfeeding (37% versus 19%) and that the risk of transmission can be reduced by the mother taking special drugs (23% versus 9%). Figure 13.2 Knowledge of mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) 21 20 19 9 39 32 37 23 Know that HIV can be transmitted from mother to child: During pregnancy During delivery By breastfeeding Know that the risk of MTCT can be reduced by mother taking special drugs Percentage of ever-married women and men age 15-49 Women Men Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan 248 • HIV/AIDS-related Knowledge, Attitudes, and Behaviour 13.3 DISCRIMINATORY ATTITUDES TOWARDS PEOPLE LIVING WITH HIV Widespread stigma and discrimination in a population can adversely affect both people’s willingness to be tested and their adherence to antiretroviral therapy (ART) programmes. Thus, reduction of stigma and discrimination in a population is an important indicator of the success of programmes targeting HIV/AIDS prevention and control. Discriminatory attitudes towards people living with HIV Women and men are asked two questions to assess discriminatory attitudes towards people living with HIV. Respondents with discriminatory attitudes towards people living with HIV are those who say that they would not buy fresh vegetables from a shopkeeper or vendor if they knew that person had HIV or who say that children living with HIV should not be allowed to attend school with children who do not have HIV. Sample: Women and men age 15-49 who have heard of HIV or AIDS Forty-six percent of women and 48% of men who have heard of AIDS do not think that children living with HIV should attend school with children who are HIV negative (Table 13.5). Fifty-three percent of women and 48% of men would not buy fresh vegetables from a shopkeeper who has HIV. Overall, similar percentages of women and men have discriminatory attitudes towards people with living with HIV according to the two indicators (60% and 61%, respectively). Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Women living in rural areas (65%) are more likely to have discriminatory attitudes towards people living with HIV/AIDS than those living in urban areas (56%). The difference between men in rural and urban areas is less pronounced (63% and 58%, respectively). ▪ Women and men in Gilgit Baltistan (72% and 73%, respectively) are more likely to have discriminatory attitudes towards people with HIV than women and men in other regions. More women than men in Azad Jammu and Kashmir (68% and