in a higher education category and a higher wealth quintile as compared with other categories (Table 9.3). Trends: Between 2006-07 and 2017-18, the proportion of pregnant women having their blood pressure checked during an ANC visit increased from 80% to 89%. With regard to the routine urine and blood tests, there was a remarkable increase in the proportions receiving these services, from 49% to 71% for a urine test and from 44% to 70% for a blood test during the same period. Iron tablets/syrup and intestinal parasite drugs As shown in Table 9.3, about three in five women (59%) took iron tablets or syrup and 2% took intestinal deworming drugs during the pregnancy for their most recent birth in the 5 years before the survey. There are substantial variations in iron supplementation by background characteristics. Women pregnant with their first child (67%), urban women (67%), highly educated (82%) and wealthier women (79%) were more likely to have taken iron supplements during pregnancy than their counterparts. Among regions, women from ICT Islamabad (78%) were more likely to use iron supplements than women from FATA (48%). Use of intestinal deworming drugs was highest among women in Balochistan (5%) compared with other regions. Figure 9.2 Components of antenatal care 70 71 89 Blood sample taken Urine sample taken Blood pressure measured Among women who received ANC for their most recent birth, the percentage with selected services Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan 158 • Maternal Health Care Counselling during antenatal care The survey also collected information on counselling services provided during ANC visits with respect to breastfeeding and a balanced diet during pregnancy (Table 9.4). More than half of women received counselling on early initiation of breastfeeding (52%) and exclusive breastfeeding (54%), while 7 in 10 reported that they had counselling on maintaining a balanced diet during pregnancy. Women were more likely to receive counselling on early initiation of breastfeeding, exclusive breastfeeding, and balanced diet during pregnancy if they were living in an urban area, in a higher education category, or in a higher wealth quintile as compared with other categories (Table 9.4). 9.3 PROTECTION AGAINST NEONATAL TETANUS Protection against neonatal tetanus The number of tetanus toxoid injections needed to protect a baby from neonatal tetanus depends on the mother’s vaccinations. A birth is protected against neonatal tetanus if the mother has received any of the following: ▪ Two tetanus