of improved water has declined marginally in urban settings, improved sanitation is far less common in rural than in urban settings, and open defecation remains fairly widespread, largely practiced by poor in rural areas. Pakistan is committed to achieve localized targets on SDGs on safe drinking water services and sanitation services by 2030. In addition, all provinces have made the commitment of making Pakistan Open Defection Free by 2025. Table 5: SDG Targets for 6.1 and 6.2 for Pakistan Safely Managed Water (%) Safely Managed Sanitation (%) Balochistan 100 100 KP 100 47 Punjab 100 100 Sindh 82.5 64 Pakistan 95 72 Source: Joint Sector Review, Drinking Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH), Pakistan. January 2019 SAFELY-MANAGED WATER The right to water is not just about access. If water is not safe to drink, if it is far away and unreachable, and if it is not available when needed, then people’s basic right to water cannot be realized. The safely managed water under SDGs comprises of water accessible at premises, available when needed, and free from contamination. This is why three main factors must be assessed to gauge the deprivations that households, and their children, face to achieving their right to water: availability, accessibility and quality. Around 92 percent of population in Pakistan has access to improved water source, 77 percent has it available when needed (available at premises), 56 percent have access to basic service and 35 percent of the population have access to safe water which is free from contamination. The 177 WHO & UNICEF, Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply, Sanitation and Hygiene, Estimates on the use of water, sanitation and hygiene in Pakistan, June 2019. lowest figure of all three is safe water free from contamination i.e. 35 percent, which is the baseline for safely managed water in Pakistan in 2018.178 Availability: Pakistan is well endowed with water – only 16 countries in the world have more water. But because Pakistan is the world’s sixth most populous country, water availability per person is comparatively low.179 Less than 10 percent of the global population lives in countries with less water per person than Pakistan. Climate change is the biggest longterm and, currently, unmitigated external risk to Pakistan’s water sector. Climate change is not expected to greatly alter average water availability over the coming decades, but inflows will become more variable between and within years, increasing the severity of