also more likely to be delivered by C-section (46%) than births to women in the lowest quintile (8%). Figure 9.7 Skilled assistance at delivery by mother’s education 56 71 80 89 94 No education Primary Middle Secondary Higher Percentage of live births in the 5 years before the survey assisted by a skilled provider Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan 162 • Maternal Health Care ▪ C-section deliveries account for only 3% of births in FATA, as compared with 29% each in ICT Islamabad and Punjab. Duration of stay in the health facility after birth Table 9.9 presents the percent distribution of women who gave birth in a health facility in the 5 years preceding the survey by duration of stay in the facility and type of delivery. Among women who gave birth by C-section, 74% stayed at the health facility for more than 3 days, as compared with only 3% of women who had a vaginal birth. The majority of women (69%) who had a vaginal birth in a health facility were discharged fewer than 6 hours after delivery. 9.5 POSTNATAL CARE 9.5.1 Postnatal Health Check for Mothers The postnatal period is important for mothers, as evidence has shown that they are more likely to develop life-threatening complications such as postpartum haemorrhage during this period. Postnatal care visits can help prevent or treat most of these conditions. In addition, the postnatal period is important for counselling the mother on how to care for herself and her newborn baby. It is recommended that a woman receive at least three postnatal check-ups, the first within 24 hours of delivery, the second on the third day after delivery, and the third on the seventh day after delivery. Table 9.10 shows that 62% of women age 15-49 who gave birth in the 2 years preceding the survey reported having a postnatal check in the first 2 days after the birth, with most check-ups occurring within 4 hours of delivery (53%). However, 36% of women did not receive any postnatal check during the first 2 days after delivery. Trends: The proportion of women with a postnatal check-up within 2 days after delivery has remained largely unchanged between 2012-13 (61%) and 2017-18 (62%). Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Seventy-nine percent of women who delivered in a health facility received a postnatal check within 2 days after the delivery as compared with only