strengthened sector management; (ii) effective investment in equity by scaling up efforts and developing an actionable strategy to expand school opportunities, target resources to the most disadvantaged particularly girls, and promote accelerated learning opportunities; (iii) adopt innovative approaches to increase numbers and quality of teaching and non-teaching professionals; (iv) increase opportunities to address wider barriers to participation and cross-sectoral collaboration in education, such as water and sanitation, health, nutrition, tailored interventions for girls; and (v) expand provision at all levels offers an opportunity to seek innovative financing and partnerships with non-state actors including exploring further opportunities for low-cost private schools combined with effective regulation. IMPACT OF COVID-19 ON EDUCATION CONTINUITY AND LEARNING COVID-19 has caused the worldwide closure of schools on an unprecedented scale. Globally, 188 countries have closed schools, affecting more than 1.5 billion children and youths,148 including 42 million learners in Pakistan.149 The experience of past shutdowns reveals a high risk of students, especially girls, dropping out of education – once they are out of school for extended periods of time, there is an acute risk that students will not return once schools reopen. Prolonged school closures and a loss of learning, therefore, will affect enrolment, learning, retention, and dropout rates in Pakistan. There is growing consensus that school closures will widen learning inequalities and disproportionately harm vulnerable children and youths.150 While public sector investments in education sector are already considerably below desired levels across the country, the pandemic will cause further ‘shrinkage’ in the resources available for education service delivery. COVID-19 is set to magnify and the exacerbate risks and vulnerabilities of Pakistan’s already weak education system. It appears poised to cause higher rates of girls’ absenteeism when schools reopen, as girls may struggle to balance schoolwork and the increased domestic responsibilities that befall them during the lockdown period. Geographically, rural areas and urban slums are the highest risk areas, with current enrolment of 70 percent of current enrolment and large pockets of out-of-school children not enrolled in any form of education.151 Intergenerational effects on educational outcomes are expected in the medium-term, as children of caregivers who are unable to home school them face the possibility of falling further behind on age-appropriate learning competencies. 148 United Nations, Policy Brief: The Impact of COVID-19 on Children, UN, New York, 15 April 2020, <https://www.un.org/sites/un2.un.org/files/ policy_brief_on_covid_impact_on_children_16_april_2020.pdf>, accessed 4 May 2020. 149 Pakistan Country Office, UNICEF. 150 United Nations Educational, Scientific