may contribute more than one episode) A little less than a third (30%) of episodes of contraceptive use in the 5 years before the survey were discontinued within 12 months (Table 7.12). Contraceptive discontinuation rates are higher for pills and injectables (47% each) than for either male condoms (33%) or IUDs (23%). Only 3% of episodes of contraceptive use were discontinued because the woman switched to another method. Women cited the desire to become pregnant (10%) and method-related health concerns or side effects (7%) as the primary reasons for discontinuing a method (Table 7.12). Among the other reasons cited for discontinuation during the last 12 months were method failure (5%) and other fertility-related reasons (4%). Desire to become pregnant (44%), followed by side effects or health concerns (19%), and became pregnant while using (16%) are the most common reasons for discontinuing a method in the last 5 years (Table 7.13). Interestingly, desire to become pregnant was 34% in the 2012-13 PDHS. 118 • Family Planning 7.5 DEMAND FOR FAMILY PLANNING Unmet need for family planning Proportion of women who (1) are not pregnant and not postpartum amenorrhoeic and are considered fecund and want to postpone their next birth for 2 or more years or stop childbearing altogether but are not using a contraceptive method, or (2) have a mistimed or unwanted current pregnancy, or (3) are postpartum amenorrhoeic and their last birth in the last 2 years was mistimed or unwanted. Sample: All women age 15-49, and currently married women age 15-49 Demand for family planning: Unmet need for family planning + current contraceptive use (any method) Proportion of demand satisfied: Current contraceptive use (any method) Unmet need + current contraceptive use (any method) Proportion of demand satisfied by modern methods: Current contraceptive use (any modern method) Unmet need + current contraceptive use (any method) Fifty-two percent of currently married women age 15-49 in Pakistan have a demand for family planning; 19% for spacing births, and 33% for limiting births. Only 34% of currently married women are using a contraceptive method either to space or to limit births, and therefore have fulfilled their need. However, 17% of currently married women have an unmet need for family planning: 10% want to space and 8% desire to limit births but are currently not using any contraception (Table 7.14, Figure 7.6). If all married women who want to space or limit their children