and Coordination, United Nations Children’s Fund, Aga Khan University, and UK Aid, National Nutrition Survey 2018, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad, 2019. The PDHS 2017–18 found that only 59 percent of women take iron tablets or syrup during pregnancy. Iron deficiency anaemia is most pronounced in Sindh (23.8 percent), followed by Balochistan (19 percent). Overall, country level data suggests that 18.2 percent of women of reproductive age in Pakistan suffer from iron deficiency anaemia. Inequity, poverty, a lack of access to health care facilities, unskilled birth attendants and unskilled midwives are among the most important determining factors contributing towards preventable maternal deaths. Early marriage, high fertility, inadequate birth spacing and illiteracy are other factors that underlie Pakistan’s high rates of maternal mortality. A study97 on the causes of the high MMR, especially in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan, highlights two key areas in dire need of improvement. First, staffing patterns at peripheral facilities (the number of doctors available) and, second, the accessibility of essential obstetric care (the distance from a woman’s area of residence to a health facility and the availability of emergency obstetric care facilities). Financial constraints, sociocultural barriers and inadequate maternal health facilities are also key reasons that Pakistan remains far from achieving the SDG targets on reducing maternal mortality. MATERNAL HEALTH CARE, FERTILITY RATES AND FAMILY PLANNING Extremely high fertility rates directly impact child and maternal mortality rates, as well as the nutritional status of women and children. Pakistan’s total fertility rates have dropped since 1990– 91 – from 4.9 children per woman to 3.6, a decline of 1.3 children per woman. However, fertility rates are not considerably different at present than in 2012–13 (3.8 children per woman). Factors that influence these levels include area of residence, region or province, household wealth, and a woman’s level of education. Women in urban areas have an average of 2.9 children, compared to an average 3.9 children per woman in rural settings. Regional variations are also apparent, from as low as 3.0 children per woman in Islamabad Capital Territory, to as high as 4.8 children per woman in the Merged Districts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Household wealth and income also has a direct relation with the total fertility rates, ranging from 4.9 children per woman among lowest wealth quintile to 2.8 children among women from the highest wealth quintile. Poor quality of care in the perinatal period contributes to high rates of still