Population Studies, Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) 2012–13, NIPS, Islamabad, 2013. 155 National Institute of Population Studies, Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) 2017–18, NIPS, Islamabad, 2018. Birth registration is considerably higher in urban areas (60 percent) than in rural settings (34 percent) with pronounced regional disparities. For instance, only 2 percent of children in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa’s Merged Districts and 19 percent of children in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are registered, compared to 82 percent of children in Islamabad Capital Territory. Stark disparities exist across wealth quintiles as only 9 percent of children are registered among families from the lowest wealth quintile in Pakistan (up from 5 percent in 2012–13), compared to 76 percent (up from 71 percent) of children from the highest wealth quintile. Marked discrepancies exist between MICS and PDHS data due to differences in the surveys’ methodologies. MICS survey interviews are carried out exclusively with mothers and primary caregivers for the indicator on birth registration, while PDHS interviews are undertaken with any household respondent. New MICS data from Punjab and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa reveals mixed results compared to the last MICS. In Punjab, birth registration has improved from 73 percent to 75.3 percent and registration in rural areas is higher than in urban centres. However, registration has declined in urban parts of Punjab since 2014, falling from 83 percent to 74.8 percent in 2018, while rising in rural areas from 68 percent to 75.8 percent. MICS data from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 100 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 101 found marginal improvements, identifying an overall birth registration rate of 20 percent among children under-five, which rises to 29 percent in urban areas (up from 27 percent, according to the province’s last MICS). However, the survey found that birth registration in rural areas has stagnated at 18 percent. Civil registration and vital statistics system in Pakistan: Civil registration and vital statistics (CRVS) systems are concerned with the legal registration and analysis of vital events in the population. Civil registration is defined as the continuous, permanent, compulsory and universal recording of the occurrence and characteristics of vital events (live birth, death, marriage, divorce, migration etc.) and other civil status events pertaining to the population in accordance with the law. Records of vital events from civil registration are the critical source of vital statistics.