of women who have experienced spousal physical, sexual, or emotional violence is highest in FATA (66%), followed by Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (52%) and Balochistan (49%). The percentage is lowest in Sindh (18%) (Figure 16.4). Patterns by husband’s characteristics and empowerment indicators ▪ The percentage of women who have experienced spousal physical, sexual, or emotional violence is lowest among those whose husbands have a higher education (24%) and highest among those whose husbands have a primary education (41%) (Table 16.11). ▪ Women whose husband is often drunk are more likely to experience physical, sexual, or emotional violence (82%) than women whose husband does not drink alcohol (32%) (Figure 16.5). ▪ Women with the same level of education as their spouse are less likely (26%) to have experienced spousal physical, sexual, or emotional violence than women in couples in which neither the husband nor the wife is educated (37%). ▪ The likelihood of experiencing spousal violence increases sharply with the number of controlling behaviours displayed by husbands; 87% of women whose husbands display all five of the specified behaviours have experienced spousal physical, sexual, or emotional violence, as compared with 22% of women whose husbands do not display any of the behaviours (Table 16.11). Figure 16.4 Spousal violence by region Percentage of ever-married women age 15-49 who have experienced physical, sexual, or emotional violence Figure 16.5 Spousal violence by husband’s alcohol consumption 32 * 75 82 Does not drink Drinks/never gets drunk Gets drunk sometimes Gets drunk very often Percentage of ever-married women who have ever experienced spousal (physical, sexual, or emotional) violence by their husband Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan An asterisk indicates that a figure is based on fewer than 25 unweighted cases and has been suppressed. 310 • Domestic Violence ▪ Women who are afraid of their husband most of the time are more likely to have experienced spousal physical, sexual, or emotional violence (74%) than women who are sometimes afraid (44%) or never afraid (18%) of their husband (Table 16.11). 16.6.2 Onset of Spousal Violence To obtain information on the onset of marital violence, currently married women were asked when the first episode of violence took place. Table 16.13 shows when spousal violence first occurred in relation to the start of marriage among women who have been married only once. Among currently married women age 15-49 who have been married only once, 11% first experienced