sample design. The stratification was achieved by separating each of the eight regions into urban and rural areas. In total, 16 sampling strata were created. Samples were selected independently in every stratum through a two-stage selection process. Implicit stratification and proportional allocation were achieved at each of the lower administrative levels by sorting the sampling frame within each sampling stratum before sample selection, according to administrative units at different levels, and by using a probability-proportional-to-size selection at the first stage of sampling. The first stage involved selecting sample points (clusters) consisting of EBs. EBs were drawn with a probability proportional to their size, which is the number of households residing in the EB at the time of the census. A total of 580 clusters were selected. The second stage involved systematic sampling of households. A household listing operation was undertaken in all of the selected clusters, and a fixed number of 28 households per cluster was selected with an equal probability systematic selection process, for a total sample size of approximately 16,240 households. The household selection was carried out centrally at the NIPS data processing office. The survey teams only interviewed the pre-selected households. To prevent bias, no replacements and no changes to the pre-selected households were allowed at the implementing stages. Due to non-proportional sample allocation, the sample was not self-weighting. Weighting factors have been calculated, added to the data file, and applied so that results are representative at the national level for Pakistan (including FATA and ICT Islamabad) and separately for Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan. The 2017-18 PDHS included all ever-married women age 15-49. Those who were either permanent residents of the selected households or visitors who stayed in the households the night before the survey were eligible to be interviewed. The survey of men was conducted in one-third of the sample households, and all ever-married men age 15-49 in these households were included. In these households, one eligible woman in each household was randomly selected to be asked additional questions about domestic violence. Similarly, height and weight information was collected from eligible women age 15-49 and children age 0-59 months only in those households selected for the man’s survey. The survey was successfully carried out in 561 clusters, after dropping 19 clusters due to security concerns during the fieldwork. These clusters were in Balochistan (1), FATA (2), Gilgit Baltistan (6), Khyber 1 The 2017-18