or permanent and may have socioeconomic implications for households and the economy at large. The 2017-18 PDHS collected information on out-migration at the household level by asking the following question: Are there any members of your household who lived here in the past 10 years but who have since moved away? Among households that reported an out-migrant, data gathered on the person who moved away included the person’s relationship to the head of the household, sex, the date he or she moved away, age and education at the time of the move, main reason for moving away, and destination (city, district, or country). Households were also asked if they had sent money to or received money from the out-migrant in the previous year. Figure 17.3 shows the distribution of out-migrants by place of destination, grouped into three categories: cities within Pakistan, rural areas within Pakistan, and other countries. ▪ One-half of out-migrants (52%) moved to a city within Pakistan, 29% moved to another country, and 19% moved to a rural area within Pakistan. ▪ Other countries are the second most common destination among male out-migrants (39%). ▪ Women usually move to a city (58%) or rural area (35%) within Pakistan. Few women migrate to another country (7%). In the remainder of this section, out-migration within Pakistan and out-migration abroad are analysed separately. 17.2.1 Out-migration within Pakistan Table 17.9 presents the percentage of households with at least one out-migrant moving within Pakistan in the 10 years preceding the survey, according to the region from which the person out-migrated and the urban/rural status of the destination. Overall, 14% of households had at least one out-migrating member; 11% of households reported that out-migrants are now living in an urban area, while 4% reported that outmigrants are now residing in a rural area. Figure 17.3 Place of destination of out-migrants by sex 49 12 39 58 35 7 52 19 29 Cities within Pakistan Rural areas within Pakistan Outside countries Percentage of out-migrants in the last 10 years Male Female Total Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Migration • 333 Patterns by background characteristics ▪ Most out-migrants move to urban areas. ▪ As many as 28% of households in Gilgit Baltistan and 25% in Azad Jammu and Kashmir have a member who out-migrated within the last 10 years. In addition to these two regions, other regions in which at least 15%