management capacity and systems need to be strengthened to ensure adequate, consistent supply of essential health commodities. • Storage capacities and reliable cold chain for vaccines and other essential medicines, such as pneumonia and diarrhorea, needs to be expanded and maintained. • There are shortages of skilled health workers, Lady Health Workers (female community health workers), vaccinators and female frontline community health workers. • Logistic support for outreach services and referrals needs to be improved. UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES 18 UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES 19 Knowledge and demand for services • Government capacity needs to be increased in the provinces and districts for social mobilization, behaviour change communication, and demand generation need. • High transportation costs, out-of-pocket expenditures and fees for services in the private sector inhibit women from accessing health care services. • Women's lack of mobility, very limited access to resources, and lack of time due to multiple responsibilities in daily life make it difficult for them to access and attain adequate healthcare services. • Household decision-makers follow traditional practices such as no antenatal care and home delivery of babies. Quality • Execution of regular routines such as provinces' and districts' reviews, monitoring and supervision need to be improved. • Minimum service delivery and quality of care standards for maternal newborn care and immunization need to be strongly established. LOOKING FORWARD Three deprivations are common to all provinces in Pakistan: (1) poor access to safe deliveries for newborn and maternal survival; (2) poor access to quality immunization services for protection against vaccinepreventable diseases; and (3) poor access to quality child health care services, particularly for diseases causing high mortality. UNICEF's goal is that by 2022, the most at-risk mothers, newborns and children benefit from integrated health interventions and healthy behaviours. The Health programme collaborates with the Nutrition and WASH programmes to support Pakistan’s National Health Vision for 2016-2025. Ensuring access to quality immunization services: UNICEF prioritizes the highest polio-risk districts, urban slums and union councils, targeting 800,000 children under the age of 1 year. We are supporting provincial health departments to deliver an integrated package encompassing immunization, neonatal services and prevention of pneumonia, diarrhoea and HIV. To reach all children, immunization programming will shift the focus to continuously missed children, including those in urban informal settlements. Priority is being given to supporting female frontline workers to reach these children. The