by background characteristics ▪ Most out-migrants move to urban areas. ▪ As many as 28% of households in Gilgit Baltistan and 25% in Azad Jammu and Kashmir have a member who out-migrated within the last 10 years. In addition to these two regions, other regions in which at least 15% of households have a member who out-migrated include Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and FATA. ▪ The regions where out-migration is least likely are Balochistan (5% of households) and Sindh (6% of households). 17.2.2 Direction of Movement among Out-migrants Direction of movement reflects the interand intra-regional out-migration and rural-urban migration patterns within Pakistan. Table 17.10 shows the percent distribution of out-migrants by the region or province from which they migrated and their place of destination. Interand intra-regional out-migration The 2017-18 PDHS results show that most out-migrants moved within their own region. ▪ Most Punjab out-migrants moved to another location within that region (78%). ▪ Punjab is also the most common destination of out-migrants from ICT Islamabad (70%), Azad Jammu and Kashmir (50%), FATA (45%), Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (31%), and Gilgit Baltistan (25%). ▪ Out-migrants in Punjab (78%), Sindh (65%), and Balochistan (34%) are most likely to engage in intraregional migration. Ruralurban out-migration Table 17.11 shows the percent distribution of out-migrants by the direction of their move, according to the region from which they migrated. ▪ Out-migrants are most likely to move from rural to urban areas in all regions other than Sindh, with percentages ranging from 41% in ICT Islamabad to 76% in FATA. There is no difference in the percentage of out-migrants in Sindh who migrate from rural to urban areas and from urban to other urban areas (41% each). ▪ Rural to rural out-migration is most common in Azad Jammu and Kashmir (26%), Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (24%), and Punjab (23%). Patterns by background characteristics ▪ The vast majority of out-migrants are age 10-30, and this is true for both the female and the male population (Table 17.12). ▪ Out-migrating after age 40 is unusual, accounting for only 6% of the out-migrant population. 334 • Migration 17.2.3 Reasons for Out-migration within Pakistan Table 17.13 shows the percent distribution of out-migrants within Pakistan by reason for migration, according to direction of movement. ▪ The most common reason reported for out-migrating is seeking better economic opportunities (42% of all out-migrants). ▪ Thirty percent of out-migrants migrated for marriage. ▪ Migration for better economic opportunities or