worst or best performing province and therefore was used as a reasonable average representation of Pakistan as a whole. While in the short term Pakistan will need to focus on ensuring service continuity during the COVID-19 pandemic, to meet the SDG targets for neonatal mortality, Pakistan would need to improve coverage of almost all interventions that impact on neonatal mortality. Specifically: • Pakistan will not be able to reach the SDGs unless it invests substantially in improving facility delivery rates (to 95%) but also improving the quality of care provided during the intrapartum period and immediate post-partum period, given the large gap in quality of care. Country reportPakistan • It would need to scale up access to full supportive care for premature newborns and newborns with sepsis and pneumonia to cover 90% of the newborns in need. • It needs to scale up coverage of tetanus toxoid vaccination during pregnancy from its current 69% to 98%, coverage levels achieved by some other countries in the region. • Pakistan would need to scale up (to 90%) existing nutritional interventions for women during pregnancy such as multiple micronutrient supplementation. It should introduce folic acid supplementation/fortification for women prior to conception and ensure that at least 50% of women are covered. Given this is not currently part of the national programme, the delivery channel(s) and specific delivery strategies must be considered carefully in context. • Scaling up the use of chlorhexidine substantially as well as oral rehydration solution (ORS) for newborns diagnosed with diarrhoea will also help Pakistan in meeting its SDG targets. Table 1 provides the package of interventions and the baseline and target coverage of interventions required to reach the SDG targets. Table 1. Scale-up required to meet SDG targets: Pakistan Intervention Quality-adjusted coverage at baseline (%) 2030 coverage target (%) Preconception and antenatal interventions Folic acid supplementation/fortification 0 50 TT Tetanus toxoid vaccination 69 98 Multiple micronutrient supplementation in pregnancy 28 90 Balanced energy supplementation 0 90 Interventions during labour and at birth Skilled birth attendance 69 95 Health facility delivery 66 95 Clean birth practices 20 95 Immediate assessment and stimulation 60 95 Labour and delivery management 2 95 Neonatal resuscitation 7 94 Antibiotics for pPRoM 2 80 MgSO management of eclampsia 16 80 Active management of third stage labour (AMTSL) 23 80 Induction of labour for pregnancies lasting 41+ weeks 1 56 Postnatal care interventions Exclusive breastfeeding 55