mobilizers; and the limited capacity of frontline health workers. To overcome such challenges and bottlenecks, there is a need to allocate human resources to remote and underserved areas, to incentivize these workers, to train and mobilize community health workers (CHWs) and LHWs who hail from these communities, and to spearhead awareness raising programmes to mitigate social taboos surrounding vaccination. Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 54 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 55 Box 2: Urban slums Urbanization is a demographic trend in both the developed and developing world. Rates of urbanization exceed 50 per cent globally and over 1 billion people live in urban slum environments. These trends are evident across South Asia, including Pakistan, where the absolute numbers of populations in slums are on the rise. Some 33 per cent of the 40.9 million people in Pakistan’s 10 megacities (Karachi, Hyderabad, Faisalabad, Gujranwala, Lahore, Multan, Rawalpindi, Quetta, Islamabad and Peshawar) live in 3,096 slum areas. Approximately 36 per cent of these areas are not registered by local authorities in eight cities. Slum growth is driven in part by accelerating rates of urbanization across these 10 megacities. In 2014, estimates suggested that 46 per cent of Pakistan’s urban population lived in slum areas (referred to as ‘katchi abadis’), equivalent to over 32 million people. Political, socio-economic, environmental and health system determinants shape patterns of low health care access and utilization in slums and underserved areas. As discussed above, the immense size of the urban population has important implications for service delivery, particularly for children. Low immunization coverage and the proportion of children have missed all of their vaccines (14 per cent) – also called ‘zero-dose children’ – are associated with socio-economic factors, including: While 53 per cent children in Pakistan are fully immunized, there remains an inadequate supply of health facilities, outreach services and human resources to provide essential immunization, environmental, maternal and child health services. Overall, 26 per cent of union councils in slums and underserved areas are without EPI facilities, and just 7 per cent of EPI facilities are within a 2 kilometres radius of slum residents. Low levels of social capital, community organization and trust in modern health care systems have been witnessed in urban slums. To safeguard the health of children and women in slums, there is a need to improve social and environmental conditions,