Women’s Empowerment Patterns by background characteristics ▪ The proportion of women who use a bank account is highest among those age 45-49 (12%) and lowest among those age 15-19 (less than 1%). Among men, use of a bank account is also highest among those age 45-49 (37%). ▪ Women in urban areas (10%) are more likely than women in rural areas (4%) to have and use a bank account. Similarly, urban men are twice as likely as rural men to have and use a bank account (46% versus 22%). ▪ Among men, education and household wealth are associated with use of a bank account. The proportion of men using bank accounts is highest among those with a higher education (69%) and lowest among those with no education (7%). Similarly, bank account use is highest among men in the highest wealth quintile (67%) and lowest among those in the lowest quintile (6%). ▪ Women and men in the highest wealth quintile (8% and 31%, respectively) are most likely to use a mobile phone for financial transactions. ▪ Among men, use of mobile phones for financial transactions is higher in urban areas (29%) than in rural areas (15%). 15.8 WOMEN’S PARTICIPATION IN DECISION MAKING Participation in major household decisions Women are considered to participate in household decisions if they make decisions alone or jointly with their husband in all three of the following areas: (1) their own health care, (2) major household purchases, and (3) visits to their family or relatives. Sample: Currently married women age 15-49 The ability of women to make decisions that affect their personal circumstances is an essential element of their empowerment and serves as an important contributor to their overall development. To assess currently married women’s decision-making autonomy, the 2017-18 PDHS collected information on their participation in three types of decisions: their own health care, major household purchases, and visits to family or relatives. To provide an understanding of gender differences in household decision making, currently married men were asked about their participation in decisions about their own health care and major household purchases. Forty-one percent of women indicated that they make decisions regarding their own health care jointly with their husband, 37% reported that such decisions are made mainly by their husband, and 10% indicated that they mainly make these decisions on their own. Forty-six percent of men stated that they make decisions regarding their own