such as antenatal care, skilled birth attendants, and treatment for acute respiratory infections, diarrhoea and fever. Due to lockdowns, immunization services have experienced severe disruptions, causing major setbacks for polio vaccination campaigns that had been gaining traction, and increasing the likelihood of the continued spread of polioviruses. Figure 6: Impact of COVID-19 on essential health services Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 66 Situation Analysis Update: Children in Pakistan August, 2020 | UNICEF Pakistan 67 Source: Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination. HMIS Data as of July 2020 A drop of 50 percent was witnessed in OPD consultations in May 2020 when compared to May 2019. Similarly, considerable reduction in ANC visits, normal deliveries, and Penta 3 and measles 1 vaccination were recorded on account of the country wide lockdown. Health workers are particularly vulnerable as they are consistently and repeatedly exposed to the virus. As of July 2020, more than 5,000 health workers were infected and 58 healthcare providers had lost their lives to COVID-19.99 Disruption in nutrition and WASH services increases the risk of waterborne diseases and may reverse hard-won gains achieved to meet SDG targets. Milestones achieved in NMR, IMR and U5MR are likely to experience a reversal due to pressure on health systems, and hundreds of 99 Government of Pakistan and media reports. https://www.thenews.com.pk/print/680655-pakistan-has-lost-42-doctors-among-58-healthcareproviders-to-covid-19. https://www.amnesty.org/download/Documents/ASA3326332020ENGLISH.pdf thousands of additional child deaths could occur in 2020 compared to pre-pandemic years.100 High rates of child deaths from malnutrition are expected to rise as a result of the pandemic, with poor households, people in geographically remote and crisis-affected areas, and vulnerable groups bearing the brunt of this burden. Access to an adequate diet is being curtailed for those at high risk due to multiple factors, ranging from limited access (financial constraints, unemployment, and the loss of steady income) to disruption in supply chains. Interruptions in food and nutrition services have already negatively impacted groups101 with the greatest nutrition needs – especially children under-five, pregnant and lactating women, and the elderly. The sharp rise in poverty expected in the wake of the pandemic (see chapter 2) is likely to exacerbate marked disparities that are already clearly visible between wealth quintiles in terms of health service coverage. While Pakistan’s lowest wealth quintiles spend 6.6 percent of their household income on health, households in the highest wealth quintiles spend 1.3 percent. If the COVID-19 pandemic results