which further increases their risk of dropout after schools reopen. Furthermore, special needs students who stand the most to benefit from face-to-face interactions with teachers for learning, are the ones who suffer the most, as alternative modalities of learning rarely cater for their special needs. Response: To contain the spread of COVID-19, the Federal Government announced the closure of all the schools in Pakistan on 13 March, 2020. It is still uncertain whether the schools will reopen on the expected date of 15 July. Many schools nationwide have been designated as temporary isolation and quarantine facilities.152 Ministry of Federal Education and Professional Training launched the Pakistan National Education Response and Resilience Plan (K-12) in early May 2020. It provides a framework of strategies and interventions for Pakistan’s education system to cope with the effects of COVID19 and prioritizes three main areas continuation of learning, system strengthening and resilience, and addressing health, hygiene and safety. Provincial education departments will need to explore a mix of no tech/offline, low tech and high tech/ online modalities across the technology spectrum to reach maximum number of children as well as respond to learning needs and of children at different levels. Specific interventions by the Government include the launch of ‘Teleschool’, a dedicated national public television channel that will broadcast school lessons via satellite, terrestrial and cable television. Programmes are being broadcast between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. every day, featuring content for Classes 1 to 12. At the provincial level, the Government of Punjab launched digitized lessons and an online teaching programme for public school students enrolled in Classes 1 to 8. This programme, Taleem Ghar, is accessible on cable television, mobile applications, and online on the programme’s website. The initiative is led by Punjab’s School Education Department, in collaboration with its Programme Monitoring and Implementation Unit (PMIU) and the Punjab IT Board (PITB). The department has also announced that Class 8 students will be promoted to the next grade without taking their Class 8 examinations. In Sindh, the School Education and Literacy Department has started developing content for tele-schooling. 152 Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation, and Coordination, National Action Plan for Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) Pakistan, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad, 2020. Development partners have come forward to support Pakistan’s federal and provincial governments to minimize the disruption of education and facilitate the continuity of learning. These include the World Bank, which has included