the continuous, permanent, compulsory and universal recording of the occurrence and characteristics of vital events (live birth, death, marriage, divorce, migration etc.) and other civil status events pertaining to the population in accordance with the law. Records of vital events from civil registration are the critical source of vital statistics. Pakistan has been identified as one of the six priority countries for CRVS strengthening by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (UNESCAP) with the goal to “Get Every One in the Picture”. In this context, birth registration is not only the legal identity rather it is also the first step towards social inclusion; while a compulsory recording of marriages through marriage certificate may provide immense help in determining the age of marrying partners and hence prevent the early marriages. The cardinal importance of CRVS lies in providing population data as it the denominator for all the population-based SDGs indicators. Pakistan has a decentralized civil registration system in which the local bodies/urban councils undertake the actual registration work at the local level. Authorities in charge of registering a birth are provincial local government departments union councils. The National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA), which is the custodian of the data warehouse on national security and population and falls under federal government, automated and centralized computerized registration and certificate issuance of vital events at the local level. The health sector is also involved in the process of registration of births and deaths at the local level. Currently, Pakistan does not produce disaggregated, vital statistics reports from civil registration data as the coverage of civil registration is too low. The Statistical Office is using data of the Population Census and other surveys such as Demographic Health Survey to produce vital statistics on a regular basis. In 2013, the Ministry of Planning, Development and Reforms (MOPDR) conducted rapid and comprehensive assessments of the CRVS system in Pakistan, in close collaboration with provincial departments, NADRA and development partners. These assessments revealed serious weaknesses including exceptionally low national data for birth and death registration and almost no death registration mechanisms in place, and very few vital statistics generated from the civil registration systems. The assessments called for the promotion of CRVS in the country with formulation of strong coordination mechanisms with all relevant ministries, departments and partners at national and provincial levels for the development and adoption of a uniform