Births to women who had four or more ANC visits were three times more likely to be attended by a skilled provider than births to women who had no ANC visits (89% and 30%, respectively). ▪ Balochistan lags behind other regions in Pakistan, with only 38% of births assisted by skilled providers. Notably, a higher proportion of births were attended by traditional birth attendants in Balochistan (52%) than in the other regions (27% or below). Deliveries assisted by a relative, friend, or others were quite high in FATA (38%) and Gilgit Baltistan (30%) as compared with the rest of the regions (17% or below). ▪ The proportion of births attended by skilled providers increases with increasing mother’s educational attainment, from 56% among mothers with no education to 94% among mothers with a higher education (Figure 9.7). ▪ Wealth quintile is another important factor associated with skilled delivery assistance, with a remarkable gap between births in the lowest quintile (46%) and those in the highest quintile (93%) (Table 9.7). 9.4.3 Delivery by Caesarean Section Access to caesarean sections (C-sections) can reduce maternal and neonatal mortality and complications of labour. WHO advises that C-sections be done only when medically necessary and does not recommend a target rate for countries to achieve at the population level. Of the total number of births in the 5 years preceding the survey, 22% were delivered by C-section (Table 9.8). For 16% of total births, the decision to deliver by C-section was made before the onset of labour pains. Trends: The proportion of births delivered by C-section has rapidly increased in the past 5 years, from 14% in 2012-13 to 22% in 2017-18. Patterns by background characteristics ▪ The C-section delivery rate is higher for births in private facilities (38%) than in public facilities (25%). ▪ C-section deliveries are almost twice as prevalent in urban areas (32%) compared with rural areas (18%). ▪ Forty-nine percent of births to women with higher education are delivered by C-section, compared with only 11% of births to women with no education. ▪ Births to women in the highest wealth quintile are also more likely to be delivered by C-section (46%) than births to women in the lowest quintile (8%). Figure 9.7 Skilled assistance at delivery by mother’s education 56 71 80 89 94 No education Primary Middle Secondary Higher Percentage of live births in the 5 years before the survey assisted