Vaccination card ownership and availability is important as a card ensures that children receive all the recommended vaccinations. Eighty öve percent of children aged 12-13 months were reported to have a vaccination card; however only 63% of children's vaccination cards could be seen at the time of the interview. Plastic coated EPI books are now being used to address this issue. Source: PSLM 2018-19 Figure 36: Coverage of immunization PSLM 2019 shows an improvement in national coverage for all antigens (as shown above in Fig 36 ). Measles coverage has been stagnant and drops due to a time gap and possible omission by parents after Penta 3. IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 59 Table 19. stock outs of pneumonia and diarrhoea commodities in ICT The same survey had the following öndings for the availability of immunization services: Readiness of services: stock outs of pneumonia and diarrhoea commodities and missed opportunities for immunization ICT SARA survey found sub-optimal availability of essential medicines and commodities in public sector facilities. It is note-worthy that co-packaged ORS and Zinc is not yet a part of the Essential Medicine List. Table 20. Missed opportunities for immunization in ICT Availability of vaccines was lowest at FWCs and dispensaries. The facilities reporting stock-outs for all the vaccines in the last 3 months varied from 3-5%. HPV is not part of Pakistan's EPI programme at the moment. IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 60 Quality of care: issues of prioritization and measurement For the purpose of this document, combined use of ORS and zinc, use of antibiotic for treatment of pneumonia and age appropriate vaccination are reviewed as measures of quality child health care. Although the practice of seeking advice or treatment for diarrhoea in children has increased from 61% in the 2012-13 PDHS to 71% in 2017-18 PDHS; many gaps in quality of care have been observed. It is highly recommended that ORS and zinc be given to children with diarrhoea to reduce the risk of childhood morbidity and mortality. According to the PDHS 2017-18, about 37% of children with diarrhoea in the last 2 weeks were given ORS and only 1 in 4 (8%) children received zinc with ORS. Only 9% of children who had diarrhoea were given more liquids than usual for rapid rehydration, while 55% were given the same