could jeopardize the country’s travel and trade. Even more important, it means the country is not fully prepared to prevent, detect and respond to health threats to protect its population, irrespective of whether the threats arise internally or externally. The WHO with input from partners, including the Global Health Security Agenda, subsequently developed a Joint External Evaluation (JEE) tool as one of four components of a new framework for IHR monitoring and evaluation. In response to resolution EM/RC62/R.3 of the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Regional Committee which required countries to assess and monitor the implementation of the IHR (2005), Pakistan was the first country in the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region, and the fourth globally, to volunteer for a JEE, which was carried out in 2016. The geographic location and topography of Pakistan predisposes the country to many natural disasters, notably earthquakes and floods. The country also experiences the adverse effects of climate change – especially extreme temperatures, melting glaciers, landslides, heavy monsoon downpours, river erosions, etc. These disasters trigger outbreaks of communicable diseases (mainly waterborne diseases, skin infections and pneumonia), as well as malnutrition and injuries. They also seriously affect peoples’ health and overall economic development. Disasters have a disproportionate impact on women and children, who comprise 70 percent of disaster-affected populations. Due to cultural norms, women and children – particularly girls – face greater risks of ill-health in the wake of disasters. They are also less likely to safely access assistance. As women are not sufficiently included in community consultations and decisionmaking processes – both before and after disasters – their needs are often not met, and their concerns are not adequately addressed. Human induced hazards that threaten the country relate to transport, industry, oil spills, forest fires, city fires, civil conflicts and internal displacements of communities as a result of multiple factors. Increasing urbanization means larger urban populations inhabiting peri-urban, marginal and at-risk areas. Vulnerability to disasters is growing in both urban and rural areas, placing ever more lives at risk. Page | 37 The country (especially provinces of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan) has continued to host the largest number of refugees in the world over the last three decades. Most recent figures from 2021 show that there are 1.4 million Afghan refugees registered in the country. Of the total registered refugees, 40 percent live in refugee villages and 60 percent live in urban areas in Balochistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,