with security, poverty, socio-economic challenges, health emergencies and recurrent humanitarian crises are some of the macro level challenges resulting in Quality of care standards needs implementation for Family Planning, MNH and pediatric care with clinical mentoring guidelines and periodic third party assessments. Provincial health care commissions can support these assessments. However the capacity of public health managers and clinicians also needs to be built and an enabling environment ensured. Patients should be partners in health care, empowered and regularly consulted to evaluate their satisfaction and compliance. Service delivery improvements are dependent on resolving the serious health work force crises. Both preservice and in-service trainings should be need based and cater to the competency gaps. Staﬀ retention and motivation issues also need to be addressed. Referral pathways from district hospitals to teaching hospitals should be explicitly outlined with each teaching hospital linked to a few feeder district hospitals. This will create a rapport and enable teaching hospitals to take mentoring role for the teams at district hospitals. The models of pooled ambulance service have shown promising results and can be replicated in all districts. Most of the MNCH and FP commodities are already included in the essential medicine list with exception of some brands of contraceptive implants and co-packaged ORS and Zinc. Procurement processes need clear SOPs and uniöed guidelines. Logistic Management and Information System (LMIS) strengthening is urgently needed to avoid stock outs. Information systems inclusive of digital innovations are indispensable for timely and evidence-based decision making. COVID-19 surveillance measures have created a unique opportunity to integrate maternal, newborn and child death reporting in sentinel surveillance. Maternal Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response is a key to identify problems in patient management and health system. Linking these problems with quality improvement processes can guarantee incremental improvements and prevent unnecessary mortality. The newly created Integrated Disease Surveillance and Response units at district level can oversee the MPDSR activities and provide support to the health facilities. Addressing the Underlying Causes of Preventable Mortality The underlying malnutrition, air pollution and inadequate WASH behaviours drive maternal and child mortality, decreases resistance to environmental insults and increases the risk of respiratory infections and diarrhoea. Addressing these causes need inter-sectoral collaboration and a leadership by the health sector in advocacy and building a coherent response. The low level of human development, coupled with security, poverty, socio-economic challenges, health emergencies and recurrent humanitarian crises all contribute to vulnerabilities