included raising the contraceptive prevalence rate to 50% by ensuring the optimal involvement of the public and private population and health sectors in family planning and move towards universal coverage of reproductive health services meeting the SDG target 3.7 by 2030; oﬀering greater contraceptive choices through an improved method mix; halving unmet need among women and girls by 2020 and half of all married men knowing where birth spacing services can be obtained; reducing the unmet needs among married adolescent girls; and increased funding for FP in provincial and federal budgets. ⁹ http://www.familyplanning2020.org/sites/default/öles/Govt_Pakistan_FP2020_Commitment_2017_0.pdf Ħ⁰ Pakistan Economic Survey Report 2019-2020 IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 12 Program implementation eﬀorts Governmental eﬀorts have included the launch of family planning programmes in the 1960s through a network of provincial population welfare departments. A bigger push for providing contraceptive counseling and services at the doorstep of rural women came through induction of LHWs. Private sector contributions were signiöcant through social marketing ventures like Green Star by PSI. In addition to public sector outlets, national and international NGOs have been also involved e.g. Family Planning Association of Pakistan (FPAP), Marie Stopes International and a consortium of NGOs called NATPOW. Population Council, UN agencies and bilateral donors like USAID and DFID have also supported diﬀerent programmes on ground. For example, a major initiative FALAH was implemented from 2007-2012 in 20 districts and reported increasing contraceptive use by 8% reducing the unmet need for birth spacing from 14.2% to 10.8% over the same periodĦĦ. Post-partum family planning remains a window of opportunity in scenario of increasing facility birthsĦħ. Postpartum intrauterine contraceptive device was found to be an eﬀective, acceptable contraception with fewer complications for the patientsĦĨ. Provinces have prepared multi-sectoral plans and allocated major funds for engaging other sectors including the private sector, Provincial line Departments, etc. These eﬀorts aim to enhance the quality and coverage of services and ensure commodity security. Meetings of the Provincial Population Task Forces (PTF) (constituted in pursuance of the recommendations approved by the Council of Common Interest (CCI), are being held under the duress of the respective Chief Ministers to carry forward the agenda. Most provinces have included Family Planning commodities in their essential drugs list. Contraceptive procurement is a challenge for some provinces, because taking part in international competitive bidding with small quantities is not feasible. Other issues include integration of family