children; vii) Investing in addressing social determinants of health; viii) Measurement and action at district level; ix) National accountability and oversight; x) Generation of the political will to support MNCH as a key priority within SDGs. 2: Action Plan 2019-24 regrading Population growth in Pakistan39 frame clear, specific and actionable 38 Ministry of NHSR&C, 2016; National Vision (2016-25) for Coordinated Priority Actions to address Challenges of Reproductive, Maternal, New-born, Child, Adolescent Health (RMNCAH) and Nutrition 39 Government of Pakistan, 2019; Action Plan (2019-24) regarding Population growth in Pakistan P O L I C Y R E S P O N S E Page | 48 recommendations to address matters relating to alarming population growth. The Action Plan frames a set of recommendations aiming at enhancing Contraceptive Prevalence Rate to 50% thereby lowering the total fertility rate to 2.8 children per woman by 2025 and; to further raising CPR to 60% and reaching a total fertility rate of 2.2 children per woman by 2030. The action plan was placed before the Council of Common Interest (CCI) chaired by the Prime Minister and represented by Chief Ministers of the provinces for immediate consideration for approval on 19th November, 2018. Action Plan is a set of interventions in eight focused areas and the recommendations are to be implemented by the federal and provincial governments with active support from the private sector, civil society organizations and international development partners. 3: Pakistan National Action Plan for Health Security40 Pakistan is a signatory to the International Health Regulations – IHR (2005). However, despite multiple efforts, it has yet to meet the required core capacities, which could jeopardize the country’s travel and trade. Even more important, it means the country is not fully prepared to prevent, detect and respond to health threats to protect its population, irrespective of whether the threats arise internally or externally. The WHO Secretariat, with input from partners, including the Global Health Security Agenda, subsequently developed a Joint External Evaluation (JEE) tool as one of four components of a new framework for IHR monitoring and evaluation. In response to resolution EM/RC62/R.3 of the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Regional Committee which required countries to assess and monitor the implementation of the IHR (2005), Pakistan was the first country in the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region, and the fourth globally, to volunteer for a Joint External Evaluation (JEE)41, which was carried out in 2016. Considering the findings