ORS plus zinc and continued feeding during diarrhea and provision of antibiotic for managing ARI could be improved by strengthening knowledge and counseling skills of service providers. All interventions for under-öves should pay special attention to the children from the poorest households which still have lower coverage and higher mortality. Call to Action Pakistan has made several positive strides in improving maternal, newborn and child health of its people which should form the basis for a much greater acceleration of progress in the coming decade to reach the 2030 target. Wider health service coverage must be matched by concomitant improvements in quality of care if maternal, neonatal and under-öve mortality is to be reduced substantially. Challenges of health system, equity and high unmet need for family planning need urgent attention to accelerate progress in the next decade. This calls for fundamental health sector and non-health sector actions for delivering a priority RMNCH package of quality services to the women and children who need it most. IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 5 health have given an impetus to think bolder and bigger. Prioritizing action to reach the SDG and related targets by 2030 is urgently required. Focusing on meeting the unmet need of FP, using the opportunity of high institutional births for PPFP ; identifying the most un-served populations, improving the management of the top causes of mortality in both public and private sectors e.g. PPH, eclampsia, sepsis, prematurity, birth asphyxia, diarrhoea and pneumonia can give the highest reduction in burden of deaths. 2. Developing RMNCH acceleration package including family planning for immediate scale-up The ten priorities for action in ten years (10X10 agenda) are 1. Improving RMNCH leadership and coordination mechanisms by strengthening TWGs at national and provincial levels 4. Harnessing the role of a strong private sector, already catering to two-thirds of the RMNCH needs. Partnerships with professional associations and health care commissions can provide leverage in this regard. 6. Resolving the serious health work force crises, nurse midwife ratio to population and attaining suﬃcient numbers of neonatologists and neonatal nurses. 5. Targeting the poor, the rural and the un-educated is imperative for reducing the coverage disparities. Linking health sector eﬀorts with poverty reduction, nutrition sensitive and social protection initiatives will bring eﬃciency and reduce duplication. 7. Improving timely referral of complicated cases by expanding pooled ambulance services and linking district