target of PKR 1.5 trillion for the year. For those who survived the virus, COVID-19 may have lingering health effects, including long-term disability due to lung scarring and heart damage, along with mental health issues that could affect individuals for a prolonged period. Indiscriminate use of antibiotics during the pandemic could further increase antimicrobial resistance. Although it is still too early for existing data to reflect this impact, the COVID-19 pandemic threatens to reverse years of progress towards improved country health and reflects the actual picture of our health system. Page | 15 H E A L T H R E L A T E D S U S T A I N A B L E D E V E L O P M E N T G O A L S The Millennium Development Goals and subsequent Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ushered in new opportunities to significantly improve health status and well-being globally. The seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), 169 targets and 244 indicators of the 2030 Agenda integrate all three dimensions of sustainable development (economic, social and environmental) recognizing that eradicating poverty and inequality, creating inclusive economic growth and preserving the planet are inextricably linked. SDG 3 specifically focuses on health, with the aim to “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages” based on the definition of health in the WHO Constitution. Health is positioned within the 2030 Agenda, with one comprehensive goal (SDG 3) and its 13 targets (and more than 27 indicators) covering major health priorities, and links to targets in many of the other goals. The Government of Pakistan, with the signing and ratification of the UN SDG 2030 Agenda in 2015, expressed its clear resolve and commitment to work in partnership with the international community for improving the health of the people. By adhering to the 2030 Agenda of SDGs, the country aims to bring about transformational change in 17 domains covering multiple sectors to improve the lives of not only the citizens of Pakistan but also contribute towards the betterment of the entire humanity. The Government of Pakistan aims to successfully implement the health-related sustainable development agenda in collaboration with provinces, private sector, civil society organizations and other line ministries. The National Health Vision (NHV) 2016-25 and National Action Plan (2019-23) provide an overarching national vision and agreed upon common direction, harmonizing provincial and federal efforts for achieving