by developing metrics and reporting, this report will encourage provinces/ federating areas and districts to refine and tailor them to their local circumstances. As the data show in this report, the process is fraught with challenges, not just in reaching the targets themselves, but also in terms of measuring progress towards them. The road to universal health coverage is long, but the commitment to achieving and measuring it is underway. This year’s monitoring report is being published at a crucial moment. Never before has there been as much political momentum for universal health coverage as there is right now. And never before has there been greater need for commitment to health to be enjoyed by all, rather than a privilege for the wealthy few. Further, the government and development partners are planning to significantly enhance financial resources for universal health coverage and this report can act as a baseline for the efforts in coming years. Universal Health Coverage is the main outcome of health-related SDGs and is measured with two targets, one for coverage of essential service delivery (3.8.1) and other for financial protection (3.8.2). The analysis reveals that only half the population in Pakistan has access to essential health services/ universal health coverage and that we are far behind reaching the global UHC Service Coverage Index target of 80+ by 2030. Though there is considerable improvement in the UHC service coverage index from 40 in 2015 to 50 in 2020, the real challenge still lies ahead. With expected enhanced investment for provision of essential health services at community and primary health care level, there would be a need to ensure efficiency and effectiveness, while building the capacity of districts and private sector to deliver these essential services. There is also a need to Page | x address serious equity issues as Balochistan and Gilgit-Baltistan have a lower score in comparison to the other provinces/ federating areas. Furthermore, the indicator to monitor catastrophic health expenditure is also critical and has shown a worsening trend during 2010 and 2015. As the government is currently scaling up Sehat Sahulat Programme, the results in the future should indicate the effectiveness of this investment. In 2015, 4.5 percent of the people in Pakistan spent more than 10 per cent of their household budget on health care, which is alarming considering the already high poverty index, a reported 51.9 percent out-of-pocket expenditure and a worsening