be an important public health threat across the country due to drug resistance and associated treatment failure. Studies across the country have also revealed high rates of multi-resistant staphylococcus aureus resistance, commonly associated with hospital acquired infections. Similarly, MDR TB and chloroquine resistant falciparum is another obstacle in achieving targets of the respective national/ provincial programmes which has grave implications for the population at large. Category 3: Non-Communicable Diseases For UHC service coverage index, the non-communicable diseases (NCD) category consists of four proxy and priority indicators related to: i) Hypertension; ii) Diabetes; iii) Cervical cancer screening; and iv) Tobacco control. Cervical cancer screening is not currently monitored at global or national level for UHC reporting. NCD diseases aggregate score for Pakistan is 54.15. Disaggregated data for NCD by provinces is currently not available as available surveys estimated the situation only at country level. 24 National AMR Action Plan for Pakistan, 2017; Ministry of National Health Services Regulations and Coordination Pakistan 0.04 0.08 2.91 2.54 9.76 8.67 1.88 0 5 10 15 Annual Parasite Incidence (API) of 2019 AJK Punjab Sindh KP Balochistan KPMD Overall Page | 30 There is need to carry out STEPwise approach to Surveillance (STEPS) and Global Adult Tobacco Survey (GATS) not only at the country level but also at provincial / federating area level. NCD aggregate score for Pakistan (and the same is at provincial level considering data limitation) is shown below in the table. Non-communicable diseases (NCD) are classified into twelve disease groups with DALYs rate for each group in Pakistan in 2019 as shown in the graph. Overall, Years of life lost (YLL) per 100,000 population were 11,777 whereas Years lived with disability (YLD) were 6,608. NCD related DALYs rates in Pakistan are primarily driven by five main disease groups: ▪ Cardio-vascular diseases (CVDs) ▪ Neoplasms/ Cancers ▪ Diabetes & Chronic kidney diseases ▪ Chronic respiratory diseases, and ▪ Mental disorders Cardio-vascular diseases: The magnitude of increase, in NCD related death and disability from 2009 to 2019, is alarming. The GBD/ IHME data for Pakistan reports that ischemic heart disease (IHD) related death and disability increased by 29 percent between 2009 and 2019.25 Stroke related death and disability increased by 20 percent, while diabetes related death and disability increased by 87 percent in the same time period. These numbers indicate that the burden on the future health service delivery in Pakistan is going to