principles of National Health Vision Strategy. Despite signiöcant progress over the years, the historical rates of reduction in maternal and child deaths and contraceptive prevalence rate are too low to achieve the SDG targets by 2030. With the COVID-19 pandemic and signs of economic recession, the health budgets may shrink or be diverted to containment measures. Keeping RMNCAH+N as a priority should be considered as an investment in future human capital and building a resilient health system. Greater granularity of equity analyses contributes to identify subgroups of women and children who are being left behind and monitor the impact of eﬀorts to reduce inequalities in order to achieve the healthrelated SDGs⁶⁹. The household registration for recipients of BISP, 'sehat sahulat' card and 'Ehsaas' programme remain a unique opportunity to map and target the poorest. The health sector can use district ranking by UHC and Multi-Dimensional Poverty indices to prioritize districts for equity focused programming. perpetual inequities in health care provision. At meso level, inadequate health önancing, weak leadership capacities at district level, multiple parallel and fragmented health care structures and serious crises of the health workforce has resulted in a weak health system. At micro-level, low literacy, malnutrition and poor social status of women hamper proactive and timely health care seeking. Prioritizing Action to Reach the SDG and Related Targets by 2030 ⁶⁹ Victora C, Boerma T, Requejo J, et al. Analyses of inequalities in RMNCH: rising to the challenge of the SDGs. BMJ Glob Health 2019;4:e001295. doi:10.1136/ bmjgh-2018-001295 IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 70 A minimum package of MNCH and FP interventions can be immediately rolled out. A simulation was run using the Johns Hopkins Lives Saved Tool (LiST) to model the impact of increasing the eﬀective coverage of this bundle of interventions to 80%, from 2021 to 2025. Two scenarios were run with the priority MNCH package without family planning and the priority MNCH package with family planning as envisaged in Government targets. The bundle of interventions for increasing coverage to 80% in scenario 1 included ANC 4+, skilled attendance at birth, basic and comprehensive Emergency Obstetric Care, essential newborn care, small and sick newborn care, treatment of diarrhoea with ORS + Zinc, treatment of Pneumonia with antibiotics, full immunization, hand washing with soap and improved water supply. In scenario 2, the CPR was increased by 20% in addition to