at birth, basic and comprehensive Emergency Obstetric Care, essential newborn care, small and sick newborn care, treatment of diarrhoea with ORS + Zinc, treatment of Pneumonia with antibiotics, full immunization, hand washing with soap and improved water supply. In scenario 2, the CPR was increased by 20% in addition to all the interventions in scenario 1. Table 22: Percent reduction in number of deaths 1. Improving RMNCH leadership and coordination mechanisms by strengthening TWGs at national and provincial levels; 3. Providing operational support to RMNCH acceleration package by UHC structures or RMNCH+N directorates with quality of care units to provide support for implementing evidence-based MNCH and FP standards; The highest number of deaths averted among mothers was related to PPH, eclampsia and sepsis. Among the newborns, maximum mortality reduction was achieved for prematurity and asphyxia. The postneonatal deaths of children under-öve registered the largest decrease for diarrhoea and pneumoniarelated deaths. This is understandable, considering the total burden of deaths by cause in these age groups. Apart from the high impact evidence-based interventions for maternal, newborn and child health; it is important to acknowledge the accelerator eﬀect of family planning. This is not impossible considering 22% women already have an unmet need for FP. The 70% institutional deliveries are due to un-tapped counselling and FP service delivery opportunities if post-partum family planning is pushed to scale. With this strategy, Pakistan will deönitely move closer to achieving the SDG 2030 targets. The ten priorities for action in the next ten years (10X10 agenda) are summarized below: 2. Developing RMNCH acceleration package including family planning for immediate scale-up; IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 71 5. Targeting the poor, the rural and the un-educated is imperative for reducing the coverage disparities. Linking health sector eﬀorts with poverty reduction, nutrition sensitive and social protection initiatives will bring eﬃciency and reduce duplication; 4. Harnessing the role of a strong private sector, already catering to two-thirds of the RMNCH needs. Partnerships with professional associations and health care commissions can provide leverage in this regard; 7. Improving timely referral of complicated cases by expanding pooled ambulance services and linking district level facilities with pre-identiöed teaching hospitals. Laying out clear referral protocols and responsibilities at each level of health system is needed; 6. Resolving the serious health work force crises, nurse midwife ratio to population and attaining suﬃcient numbers of neonatologists