the method mix more recently. Traditional methods continued to be commonly used, and most of these were withdrawal (8% in 2017/18). ħ⁰ http://www.familyplanning2020.org/sites/default/öles/Pakistan-FP2020-Questionnaire-Self-Report-2019.pdf IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 19 Increasing demand for FP needs to involve men. Waqas Hameed et al. suggest encouraging familyplanning programmes to engage men within the scope of their interventions, as contraceptive use rests more on couples' decisions than on women's decision only. Moreover, eﬀorts need to be made to educate both partners equally about contraceptive methods that have higher eﬀectivenessħĦ. High Abortion rate Pakistan currently has one of the highest abortion rates in the world. Abortion is becoming the means to exercise birth control, and most of these abortions are being conducted in unsafe environments. In 2002, Pakistani women experienced about 2.4 million unintended pregnancies; nearly 900,000 of these pregnancies were terminated by induced abortionħħ. 48% of pregnancies in Pakistan are unintended, of which 54% are terminated, mostly in an unsafe way. Around a third of all women who undergo abortions suﬀer complications, ranging from heavy bleeding to a perforated uterus and deadly infections. A national survey of public-sector facilities estimated that about 200,000 women were hospitalized for abortion complications in 2002ħĨ. In addition, many other women suﬀered complications but never reached hospitals. Unsafe abortion is also the cause of a substantial proportion of maternal deaths occurring in hospitals. A 1999–2001 university hospital study found that 11% of all maternal deaths that occurred in the hospital during this period were caused by complications resulting from unsafe abortionħ⁴. In an earlier hospital study (1992–1994), unsafe abortion had caused 15% of maternal deathsħ⁵. While Pakistan's fertility rate is high compared with more developed countries, it is lower than would be predicted by the country's low level of contraceptive use: On average, women have 4.1 live births, and, in metropolitan areas, the rate is just 3.0 live births. It is diﬃcult to explain such fertility rates solely in terms of contraceptive use. Widespread induced abortion is likely to an important contributing factorħ⁶. The fact that women in the two less developed provinces—Balochistan and North West Frontier Province—have lower contraceptive use rates and higher abortion rates than women in the more developed provinces, supports this interpretation. The gaps between urban and rural women were moderate in PDHS 2016/17: 74.2% and 61.0% respectively. Similarly, diﬀerence by education (ranging from 59.7% among women