increases the risk of respiratory infections and diarrhoea. Addressing these causes need inter-sectoral collaboration and a leadership by the health sector in advocacy and building a coherent response. The low level of human development, coupled with security, poverty, socio-economic challenges, health emergencies and recurrent humanitarian crises all contribute to vulnerabilities for women and children. MNCH and family planning need to be positioned at the centre of all development and risk preparedness eﬀorts. Leaving No One Behind IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 69 The concept of Universal Health Care (UHC) implies that all people and communities can use the promotive, preventive, curative, rehabilitative and palliative health services they need, of suﬃcient quality to be eﬀective, while also ensuring that the use of these services does not expose the user to önancial hardship. Access to essential health services and health equity are the key challenges in a country of 224 million people where an estimated 46 million people are living below the poverty line. There has been a consistent and signiöcant decline in poverty over the years. The poverty head count measure fell from 64.3% in 2001 to 24.3% in 2015. However, since 2015, the pace of poverty reduction is likely to have halted due to macroeconomic crisis and associated slow-down in growth. In this context, the outbreak of the recent COVID-19 pandemic and the containment measures adopted by the government, are expected to increase poverty in the country. Less than one percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is being spent as governmental health expenditure and share of out of pocket health expenditure in Pakistan is around 57.6% of the total health expenditure, which is very high. In addition to the existing challenges of access to essential health services and health equity, the COVID-19 pandemic has intensiöed the need for investment in development of an equitable and resilient health system and mechanism for önancial risk protection especially for vulnerable populations. Pakistan can only accelerate progress towards ending preventable mortality for mothers, newborns and children or achieve family planning goals by truly following the principles of National Health Vision Strategy. Despite signiöcant progress over the years, the historical rates of reduction in maternal and child deaths and contraceptive prevalence rate are too low to achieve the SDG targets by 2030. With the COVID-19 pandemic and signs of economic recession, the health budgets may shrink