"empowering the destitute." There is no evidence that the new system has reduced corruption or demonstrated clear responsibility at the local level, and it has weakened existing political parties. Military control has been reinforced and the possibility of internal strife has increased as a result. Besides, nearly every aspect of local government, from education to transportation, has been decentralized to the districts. The districts have now devolved responsibility to the communities to establish their own plans, programmes, and interventions based on local realities and needs. It is Alma Alta's vision that has shaped the public health care system, which places a heavy emphasis on primary care. Lady Health Workers (LHW) and Village-Based Family Planning Workers (VBFPW) programmes have been implemented at the community level in Pakistan. As a result of their grassroots protections, these efforts gained international recognition. Ten rural health clinics (RHCs) serving 10,000 people support these personnel through a vast network of dispensaries, basic health units, and other health care facilities. Primary hospitals serve between 1 and 2 million people, whereas the majority of people are served by tehsil and taluka hospitals. A nationwide medical network includes 796 hospitals, 482 regional health centres, 4616 basic health units, and 4144 dispensaries. (Zulfiqar, Abbas et al. Determinants of Availability and Accessibility to Primary Health 1174 2018). They are usually located distant from the population and have a restricted number of operational hours. Nearly 90% of the country's health care providers are medical professionals, including 90,000 physicians, 3000 dentists, 28,00 nurses, 6,000 Lady Health Visitors and 24,00 midwives (Zulfiqar, 2018a). There are just a quarter of female health practitioners certified to provide healthcare facilitation at BHUs and RHCs across the country. Pakistan has undergone healthcare reforms aimed at enhancing the utilization of primary healthcare services at public facilities throughout the past decade. Given the constrained capacity of governments to effectively administer health care services, particularly in poor and middle-income nations, the outsourcing of health care service delivery is often regarded as a viable and efficient solution (Tanzil et al., 2014). In the context of Pakistan, it has been observed that the government has opted to delegate the management of primary healthcare (PHC) to non-governmental organizations (NGOs) as a response to the inadequate use of PHC services. Therefore, the Pakistani government introduced structural changes in the management of primary healthcare services at the basic health unit (BHU) level (Khan, 2010). Access to