and Tehsil and District level hospitals since the 1960s. Doctors, Nurses, Lady Health Visitors, Family Welfare Workers and Community midwives are qualiöed as skilled birth attendants. A breakthrough in community based maternal and child health services was observed with the launch of the National Programme for Family planning and Primary Health Care in 1994 which recruited about 90,000 Lady Health Workers. However, the recent programme evaluations have shown a decreasing Introduction l extent to which services are received and used (ANC 4+ and SBA) Main policies This chapter brieøy reviews the main policies and targets for maternal health and describes the salient program implementation eﬀorts and larger epidemiological context of maternal mortality trends in Pakistan. IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 24 Provincial MNCH programme units have continued through supplementary funding by subsequent PC-1s which have expired, or are near expiration. Re-introduction of MNCH directorates in the provincial departments of health is needed to continue the leadership and programmatic support for MNCH programming for achieving SDGs on the reduction of maternal, neonatal and under-öve mortality. General epidemiological trends: decline in maternal mortality but SDG target remain far oﬀ performance of LHWs due to resource gaps in önancing and technical supervision. The Government of Pakistan continues to strengthen maternal and child health care. With devolved healthcare, provincial departments of health have actively led the implementation eﬀorts. The special initiatives launched by the Government of Punjab since July 2019 to December 2019 included scaling up of the Sehat Insaf Card Programme; doubling the size of the LHW programme; increasing number of 24/7 Basic Health Units (BHUs) and Rural Health Centres (RHCs) equipped with a basic package of services, staﬀ and ambulance service; establishing training institutes for nurses and paramedical staﬀ; upgrading secondary care facilities; and building state of the art hospitals in major urban centers of the province. The Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa has initiated up-gradation of several BHUs to RHC level in the province from July 2019 to December 2019. Sehat Sahulat Programme has been extended to 69 % of the population of the province. The Government of Balochistan is committed to enhancing health infrastructure/facilities across the province. Construction of one new BHU/RHC in each Tehsil of Balochistan and strengthening of 16 potential DHQs (50 Bedded Hospital) is plannedĨ⁰. Similarly Sindh, AJK, GB and ICT regions have supported MNCH through multiple initiatives. The National