figure illustrates the framework of social determinants of health and other factors affecting RMNCH outcomes. Among the social determinants of health, level of education, occupation, income, wealth and rural–urban status is important. Outside of the 32 World Economic Forum (WEF) Report on 2021 Global Gender Gap Index (GGGI) social determinants, health systems performance, health-seeking behaviour and several factors in the inter-sectoral domain also influence health outcomes. As Pakistan is shaping the UHC agenda and has defined its UHC Benefit Package including essential health services, there is a need that inter-sectoral interventions are seen by parliamentarians, policy makers from different ministries, service providers, leaders, media, civil society, partners and people as an essential element of UHC and well-being. Accelerated progress, more commitments, better aligned action across sectors and among all partners and stronger mutual accountability mechanisms are needed. Government of Pakistan is committed to ensure health equity across population stratums by offering the financial protection through the implementation of the policy and programmatic reforms, envisioning a ‘health system that is efficient, equitable and effective to ensure acceptable, accessible and affordable health services. It will support people and communities to improve their health status while it will focus on addressing social inequities and inequities in health and is fair, responsive and pro-poor, thereby contributing to poverty reduction’. Gender Pakistan has significant gender disparities that serve as a major impediment to economic and social development, as well as to upholding human rights in general. As per the 2021 Global Gender Gap Index (GGGI) Pakistan ranks 153 out of 156 countries assessed on the index. Pakistan features among the bottom 10 countries in two of the four subindexes: 152 in economic participation and opportunity, 144 in educational attainment. The scorecard places Pakistan at 153 in Health and Survival and 98 in Political Empowerment. A comparison of previous rankings shows that the overall ranking for Pakistan has drastically slipped from 112 in 2006 to 153 in 202132. Framework of Social Determinant of Health Page | 43 The report by World Economic Forum stated that only 5 percent of senior and leadership roles are held by women, whereas only 22.6 percent of Pakistan’s labour income goes to women. Further, women do not have equal access to justice, ownership of land and nonfinancial assets or inheritance rights. On a more positive note, there are signs of improvement in the share of women who are in professional and