benchmark of defining poverty as families/ households having daily income of less than $2.00, while Gilgit Baltistan SHPI uses the benchmark of $1.00 per day. In total, these programmes have expanded to 65 districts across the country and have enrolled over 81 million individuals. At present, these initiatives provide coverage for inpatient care, and the benefits package for each social protection programme includes secondary care up to a limit which differs by each initiative. SSP has also defined the list of priority diseases and services to be covered under tertiary care, while SHPI does not currently cover tertiary care. The beneficiaries of these programmes can access services from a combination of public and private sector facilities empanelled with the insurance companies. Other than these major initiatives, the poor population also has access to ‘Zakat’ and ‘Bait ul mal’ funds to pay for health care. ‘Bait ul mal’ is a publicly funded social protection initiative created for the welfare of vulnerable populations such as the disabled, orphans and widows. Zakat, on the other hand, is a 2.5 percent zakat paid by Muslims on their annual savings, which is collected and allocated by the Ministry of Religious Affairs for each province. Health care is one of six programmes administered under the Zakat fund. These initiatives are important reforms to reduce catastrophic expenditures of the poorest families. However, these need to be expanded both in terms of breadth of services and coverage of people. There are also separate health service delivery programmes for armed forces and employees of autonomous institutions, private and commercial establishments. Employers of private and commercial institutions, which employ 10 or more persons, must provide insurance to employees under the Employees’ Social Security Institution (ESSI). The revenue for insurance is collected and distributed by the provincial ESSIs using a mandatory deduction of 7 percent, which is used to provide outpatient and inpatient services. This report presents the detailed results of the latest efforts to monitor Pakistan’s path towards UHC. Page | 4 Page | 5 C O N T E X T Pakistan is the site of several ancient cultures, including the 8,500-year-old Neolithic site of Mehrgarh in Balochistan, and the Indus Valley Civilisation of the Bronze Age, the most extensive of the civilisations of the Old World. The region that comprises the modern state of Pakistan was the realm of multiple empires and dynasties, including the Achaemenid; briefly that