health care services, preventative and curative including immunization are part and parcel of primary health care service provision in Pakistan. At community level, Lady Health Workers are trained in growth monitoring and IMNCI; treat mild cases and refer the sick children to health care facilities. The EPI programme runs the immunization services through the öxed centre and outreach by vaccinators. Polio vaccination campaigns are supported by LHWs, vaccinators and local volunteers. Recent declines in availability of medicines with LHWs is a grave concern. Health facility data also show chronic shortages of essential medicines. For example, ICT SARA survey 2020 shows that 66% of facilities (tertiary hospitals, CHCs, RHCs, FWCs, BHUs and dispensaries) were providing preventative and curative services for children under-öve. The FWCs and dispensaries were particularly low on availability of child health services. Assessment of progress ⁶Ħ WHO,CDC, March of Dimes (2020) Birth defects surveillance: a manual for programme managers and Birth defects surveillance: quick reference handbook of selected congenital anomalies. Source: http://proöles.countdown2030.org/#/cp/PAK CAUSES OF DEATH UNDER FIVE 2017 Globally nearly half of child deaths are aƩributable to undernutriƟon Mauve categories represent neonatal causes IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 54 The readiness scores for medicines and equipment were also un-satisfactory in ICT SARA survey. Table 16. Access to services in ICT Table 17. Access to services in ICT An appraisal of Knowledge, Attitude and Practices of trained doctors regarding IMNCI revealed gaps in knowledge and practices of trained doctors⁶ħ regarding management according to IMNCI guidelines. This is also substantiated by recent ICT SARA survey öndings as shown above. Innovations like on-line courses on IMNCI for doctors are being successfully tried in Punjab and can reduce the training costs signiöcantly. Inclusion of IMNCI and growth monitoring to pre-service curricula is also recommended. Similar gaps were also found in ICT SARA survey for immunization related guidelines, staﬀ capacities and equipment. ⁶ħ Amin H, Yasin H, Danish, SH, Ahmad F, Rasheed S, Zehra N, Ara G. Appraisal of knowledge, attitudes and practices of trained doctors regarding IMNCI. Pak J Med Dent 2015; 4(1):47-53. IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 55 Table 18. Immunization related guidelines in ICT Improving access through engagement of the private sector is important. The private sector caters to a substantial need for child health care except immunization. General Physicians and pharmacies are providers