of health services and ensuring social health protection. Measuring equity is also critical to understand who is being left behind—where and why. Each province and district in Pakistan is unique, and each province may focus on different areas, or develop their own ways of measuring progress towards UHC. But there is also value in a global approach that uses standardized measures that are internationally recognized so that they are comparable across borders and over time. Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations & Coordination is supporting provincial/area health departments to develop their health systems to move towards and sustain UHC, and to monitor progress. But we are not alone: we are working with many different partners in different situations and for different purposes to advance UHC in Pakistan. I am especially thankful to WHO, UNICEF, FCDO and USAID for contributing to develop UHC benefit packages and supporting UHC monitoring system in Pakistan. Aamir Ashraf Khawaja Secretary (NHSR&C) Page | vii A C K N O W L E D G E M E N T S Pakistan: 2021 Monitoring report of Universal Health Coverage is the second annual report to assess and monitor the progress at national, provincial and district levels. It solidifies the intent for investing in the roadmap for the health sector development, while ensuring regular monitoring on what progress has been made and what are the challenges. Universal health coverage is building political momentum around a shared vision for strengthening of health systems, advocating for sufficient, appropriate and well-coordinated investments, facilitating accountability for progress and promoting coordination and partnerships. I would like to give my special thanks to the SAPM/ Federal Minister of Health, Provincial/ Area Health Ministers, Secretaries Health, Directors General Health Services and other colleagues from the ministry and health departments for contributing to the process of universal health coverage. I hereby acknowledge the efforts of the Health Planning, Systems Strengthening and Information Analysis Unit (HPISU) of the Ministry under the leadership of Dr Malik Muhammad Safi and Dr Syed Raza Zaidi and technical inputs of Javeria Yousaf, Usman Bashir, Wahaj Zulfiqar and Mishal Javed. It is also worth mentioning the active role of Dr Atiya Aabroo, Dr Samra Mazhar and Dr Sabeen Afzal from the Ministry and Provincial/ Area UHC focal points and UHC coordinators from Health Departments. I would like to convey my special thanks to the development partners and more specifically UK’s Foreign,