Page | i PAKISTAN: 2021 Monitoring Report UNIVERSAL HEALTH COVERAGE Page | ii Page | iii December 2021 Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations & Coordination 2021 Monitoring Report UNIVERSAL HEALTH COVERAGE PAKISTAN Page | iv @ December 2021 Pakistan 2021 Monitoring Report Universal Health Coverage Produced by Health Planning, System Strengthening and Information Analysis Unit (HPSIU) Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination Analysts and Authors Dr Malik Muhammad Safi Dr Syed Raza Mahmood Zaidi Javeria Yousaf Usman Bashir Wahaj Zulfiqar Mishal Javed Technical Assistance World Health Organization, Pakistan Oxford Policy Management/ UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office For more information, please visit: Web: http://www.nhsrc.gov.pk/ Mobile app: SDG3 Pakistan Page | v M E S S A G E Investing in health is not just good for the individuals who directly benefit, but is also worthy for their families, communities, country’ growth and political stability. Universal Health Coverage recognizes that health is a ‘public good’ with externalities, and that the state has a responsibility to invest in provision of essential health services while ensuring equity. No goal is real unless measured against a time-bound target. We need to make our policies and interventions accountable and measurable, to track progress and make adjustments as the process of implementation moves ahead. In order to learn and to benchmark progress, we need a measurement framework that can provide a common, and comparable, set of metrics. That is why the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations & Coordination and Health Departments have localized health-related Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with support of World Health Organization and using that as a joint framework for monitoring progress in health. Universal Health Coverage is the main outcome of health-related SDGs and is measured with two targets, one for essential service delivery (3.8.1) and other for financial protection (3.8.2). For service delivery, the global target is that more than 80 percent of the people and especially the poor have access to essential health services, such as delivering babies in a safe environment, vaccinating children, successful treatment of tuberculosis, high blood pressure, diabetes etc. At the national level, we aim that by 2030, more than 65 percent of the population will have access to quality essential health services. For financial protection, the proposed target is to reduce by half the number of people by 2030 who are impoverished due to out-of-pocket health care expenses. By 2030, no one