the accessibility of primary healthcare in rural areas. These frontline workers are essential in delivering healthcare services directly to communities, overcoming geographical barriers, and increasing healthcare access. Leveraging mobile healthcare teams and ambulance services can enhance accessibility and reach underserved populations in remote areas. So, improving healthcare accessibility in rural Pakistan requires a multi-dimensional approach involving targeted interventions, policy reforms, and community engagement initiatives. By recognizing the complex interplay of socio-economic, infrastructural, and cultural factors, policymakers and healthcare providers can work towards building a more inclusive and responsive healthcare system that meets the needs of rural communities. Future research should continue to explore these determinants to develop comprehensive strategies that ensure equitable healthcare access and improve health outcomes for all rural residents in Pakistan. Acknowledgement I would like to express my sincere gratitude to my supervisor for their guidance, support, and encouragement throughout this research journey, my family for their unwavering love, patience, and understanding, my friends for their valuable feedback, help, and camaraderie and The UUM community, for providing a stimulating environment and resources. This thesis would not have been possible without the collective efforts and contributions of these individuals and organizations. I am truly grateful for their support. REFERENCES Ahmed, K. A.,Grundy, J., Hashmat, L., Ahmed, I., Farrukh, S., Bersonda, D., . Banskota, H. K. (2022). An analysis of the gender and social determinants of health in urban poor areas of the most populated cities of Pakistan. International Journal for Equity in Health, 21(1). https://doi.org/10.1186/s12939-022-01657-w Ahmed, N., Shah, S., & Akhtar, R. (2019). Socio-Economic Disparities and Healthcare Accessibility in Pakistan: and Neutralizability. Habib, S. S., & Zaidi, S. (2021). Exploring willingness to pay for health insurance and preferences for a benefits package from the perspective of women from low-income households of Karachi, Pakistan. BMC Health Services Research, 21(1), 1-9. Hussain, T., Ahmed, I., & Rehman, M. (2020). Traditional Healers and Community Engagement in Healthcare: Rural Pakistan Context. Journal of Community Health, 45(4), 489-499. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10900-020-00790-5 Iqbal, N. T., Syed, S., Sadiq, K., Khan, M. N., Iqbal, J., Ma, J. Z., ... & Ali, S. A. (2019). Study of Environmental Enteropathy and Malnutrition (SEEM) in Pakistan: protocols for biopsy-based biomarker discovery and validation. BMC pediatrics, 19(1), 1-17. Kanj M, Mitic W. Promoting health and development: Closing the implementation gap. Glob Health Promot 2010: 17(2); 3-95. Kessler, M., Thumé, E., Marmot, M., Macinko, J., Facchini, L. A., Nedel, F. B., ...