of the virus was the first question; hence, detailed history-taking of patients was crucial not only in understanding the outbreak but also in determining the contacts of patients with other people in the community. This helped in cordoning off areas or home-bounding people who came in close contact with a patient with COVID-19. In addition to this, patients with a recent international travel history were monitored closely because many cases and 13 National Institute of Population Studies, 2012-13 and 2017-18; Pakistan Demographic & Health Surveys Page | 14 massive spread was reported in the countries neighbouring Pakistan As of mid-December, 2021, Pakistan is reporting 300 new infections on average each day. There have been more than 1.28 million infections and more than 28,770 coronavirus-related deaths reported in the country since the pandemic began. Sindh and Punjab reported higher number of cases 474,818 and 442,804 followed by KP, Islamabad, AJK, and GB. Pakistan faced shortages of essential materials necessary to combat the spread of COVID-19, with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) remaining scarce and exorbitantly expensive. This poses significant challenges not just for the population at large, but specifically for healthcare professionals, who risk becoming vectors of the disease, creating the conditions for a potentially catastrophic situation. Pakistan has passed the 76 million mark for total COVID19 vaccine doses administered of which 49 million persons are fully vaccinated, 27 million have been administered the first dose. The government has announced booster shots for overseas travellers to be administered at a cost of PKR 1,270. Whereas free booster vaccination is now offered to people above 50 years of age, health care providers and immunecompromised patients. So far, the government has spent more than US$ 1.6 billion on vaccine and diagnostic services, which is an extra-ordinary response considering difficult economic situation and high inflation rate. Partners have also supported Pakistan to mitigate the risks related to COVID-19 pandemic. Credit disbursement to the agriculture sector increased by 12% on year-on-year basis to PKR 1.37 trillion in FY21. According to the State Bank of Pakistan, 49 financial institutions managed to achieve 91% of their assigned credit target of PKR 1.5 trillion for the year. For those who survived the virus, COVID-19 may have lingering health effects, including long-term disability due to lung scarring and heart damage, along with mental health issues that could affect individuals for a prolonged period. Indiscriminate use of antibiotics during the pandemic