political priorities of the government and make the improvements at a quicker pace with attention to inter-district disparities and variations. This however runs the risk of fragmentation and lack of a uniöed approach which creates eﬃciencies. The National Ministry of Health Services Coordination and Regulation has successfully provided the platform of RMNCAH Technical Working Group which can be further strengthened. hospitals are included in the list of empaneled facilities for using the 'sehat sahulat' card; and have shared the information on COVID-19 cases and number of available beds and ventilators. Partnerships with the private sector also exist to notify Dengue fever and TB cases. These examples show promise of bringing private health establishments into the health information system and simpliöed recording and reporting forms can be introduced through a participatory approach with GP associations. Data availability for most of the SDG and UHC related indicators is reasonably adequate in Pakistan. However, huge gaps exist for CRVS (Civil Registration and Vital Statistics); birth weight measurement, reporting of still births and standardized measures for determining quality of care and cohort tracking. Extensive investment is required to scale-up and streamline MPDSR and link these eﬀorts with continuous quality improvement. Strengthening the Health System Governance and leadership, especially at the provincial and district levels are key to design and deliver results. Under the current scenario, none of the provinces have the position of Director MCH. The Provincial MNCH programme units are on the verge of extinction as soon the extended PC-1s expire with exception of Sindh province where a Deputy DG RMNCAH position has been announced. Whether new positions for a technical team to oversee FP and MNCH are created or not will determine the provincial capacity to run an accelerated initiative to reach SDG targets. It may be practical to house this expertise in units under consideration for UHC basic package implementation for sustainability. The needs for technical assistance should be channelled through the National RMNCAH Technical Working Group for eﬀective management. IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 68 The low level of human development, coupled with security, poverty, socio-economic challenges, health emergencies and recurrent humanitarian crises are some of the macro level challenges resulting in Quality of care standards needs implementation for Family Planning, MNH and pediatric care with clinical mentoring guidelines and periodic third party assessments. Provincial health care commissions can support these assessments.