been made on some key strategic areas related to IHR and the index related to IHR is expected to improve over last few years. There is an urgent need for the next round of JEE not only at national level but also at provincial / federating area level. Page | 38 Page | 39 Financial Protection (3.8.2) The affordability of healthcare is a key dimension for achieving UHC. In lowand middle-income countries, a large number of people lack sufficient financial means to access health care services. Millions of people are pushed into vicious cycle of poverty every year due to compelling needs to pay for health care services. Financial risks are measured by following two indicators: ▪ Population with household expenditures on health >10% of total household expenditure or income (%) – Value for Pakistan is 4.5 in 2015 compared to 1.03 in 2010 ▪ Population with household expenditures on health >25% of total household expenditure or income (%) – Value for Pakistan is 0.5 in 2015 compared to 0.02 in 2010 The two values indicate that Pakistan was already having a rising trend of household expenditure on health from 2010 to 2015, whereas population was already negatively affected by high level of poverty. Current COVID-19 pandemic, very high inflation rate and worsening economic situation in the country are expected to have serious financial risks on the population / rising household expenditures on health. Globally more than 100 million people are pushed into extreme poverty due to health-related expenditures. In Pakistan major portion of all new entrants in poverty are also because of catastrophic health expenditure. Having Out-of-Pocket (OOP) expenditure on health of more than 51.9 percent and one out of every three living in extreme poverty, Pakistan has been ranked as one of the most exposed nations to poverty risk among 43 countries of Asia-Pacific region. Government has taken a number of steps to protect its citizens from financial risks. The top priority of the government is to enhance government health expenditures on health, which have reached to a level of PKR 477 billion in 2019-20 and are around 1.2 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). In an attempt to reform the health sector, the federal and provincial governments introduced social health protection programmes in their constituencies, such as the Sehat Sahulat Programme (SSP), and the Social Health Protection Initiative (SHPI). The target beneficiary of these programmes is