The challenges in Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa are huge as more than 80 percent of its population lives in rural areas with inadequate healthcare services and structures. According to PDHS 2017-18, only 16 percent households in KP and 18.8 percent households in Balochistan have been found to have at least one mosquito net in their possession and a very small number of 0.1 percent in KP and 0.2 percent in Balochistan had slept under any mosquito net the previous night when asked. While malaria is declining in the country, the challenge of dengue has emerged as a major public health issue especially in urban areas of Punjab, Islamabad, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Sindh. Antimicrobial resistance (AMR): has become a major public health challenge for the country and has spread to almost all the provinces/ areas of the country because of the indiscriminate use of antibiotics and poor infection control practices. Furthermore, the “misuse and overuse” of antimicrobials, contribute to the increasing burden of infections due to resistant 23 Directorate of Malaria Control, Government of Pakistan: Pakistan Malaria Report, 2019. bacteria, viruses, parasites and fungi, while limiting the treatment options for managing such infections.24 In Pakistan, a number of contributory factors have been identified in the spread of AMR. These include unnecessary large number of registered products (approximately 50,000); unjustified or misleading advertisements with only about 15 percent promotional brochures meeting WHO criteria; self-medication in more than 50 percent of the population according to different studies/surveys; and, a high number of quacks in the country. The highest numbers of drugs are prescribed with more than 3 drugs per patient, and 70 percent of patients are prescribed antibiotics. This irrational and indiscriminate use is more common among General Physicians (GPs) and public sector hospitals with a bias towards costly broad-spectrum antibiotics. Availability of over the counter (OTC) without prescription medications, especially antibiotics is a common practice throughout the country contributing towards increase in AMR.24 In Pakistan, resistance in gram negative organisms have been recognized in several studies. An alarmingly highly resistant Enterobacteriaceae against third generation Cephalosporins has also been reported. Typhoid continues to be an important public health threat across the country due to drug resistance and associated treatment failure. Studies across the country have also revealed high rates of multi-resistant staphylococcus aureus resistance, commonly associated with hospital acquired infections. Similarly, MDR TB and chloroquine resistant falciparum is another obstacle in achieving targets