Govt. of Punjab ⁴Ĩ Survive and thrive: transforming care for every small and sick newborn. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2019. Licence: CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 IGO. Table 12. Facility readiness in ICT (SARA Survey 2019) Table: Inpatient care for small and sick newborns: requirements for care at diﬀerent health system levels⁴Ĩ IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 43 ⁴⁵ Hasan Nawaz Tahir, Zafar Fatmi (2019)Kangaroo mother care: opportunities and implications for rural Pakistan, J Pak Med Assoc 69 (11):1725-1729 ⁴⁶ United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), World Health Organization (WHO). UNICEF-WHO Low birth weight estimates: Levels and trends 2000–2015. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2019 Licence: CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 IGO. The AKU and UNICEF study on Situation Analysis on Stillbirths, Newborn Deaths and Small & Sick Newborn Care 2019, was a örst systematic attempt to understand the gaps in coverage and quality of interventions for the small and sick newborns. In a sample of 23 facilities across the country providing inpatient care for newborns (including teaching hospitals), 100% had paediatricians while only 13% had neonatologists, 9% had neonatal surgeons and 13% had neonatal nurses. On a closer examination, the teaching hospitals have consultant neonatologists but there are no positions for this speciality at DHQ and THQ level. Similarly neonatal nursing is an under-developed specialization in Pakistan⁴⁵. “A newborn's weight at birth is an important marker of maternal and fetal health and nutrition. Low birth weight newborns have a higher risk of dying in the örst 28 days of life. Those who survive are more likely to suﬀer from stunted growth and lower IQ. The consequences of low birth weight continue into adulthood, increasing the risk of adult onset chronic conditions such as obesity and diabetes .” ⁴⁶ Availability of services for low birth weight and pre-term infants, like Kangaroo Mother Care, is limited to a few tertiary hospitals, presently. National guidelines on KMC have been developed. However, the intervention is still not captured in DHIS and coverage of eligible neonates cannot be determined. Postdischarge follow-up has been rated as one of the biggest challenges of the KMC units. Linkages with local BHUs and follow-up by LHWs needs to be developed. Propositions to scale-up KMC include three pathways: 1) champion-led approach in which a small group led by community person initiates and maintains the KMC intervention; 2) the project-initiated approach focused on project driven and donor funded