örst year of life, with the highest incidence (20%) occurring among 6-11 months old⁵⁷. In addition, there are 15 million episodes of ARI every year among under-öves in Pakistan⁵⁸. A study showed that belonging to the lowest wealth quintile, lack of maternal education, previous birth interval < 2 years, örst birth order and below average birth size were associated (p < 0.05) with a greater risk of child mortality in Pakistan. Common factors associated with child mortality were fever, diarrhoea and pneumonia⁶⁰. This was further strengthened by training conducted under the National MNCH Programme. However, studies have highlighted a gap in understanding the management guidelines of IMNCI despite training⁵ħ. Lady Health Workers also played a crucial role to perform their regular home visits and deliver promotive, preventive and simple but essential curative home health care services including the most common diseases encountered among the under 5 children population i.e. diarrhoea, respiratory tract infections and fever; by eagerly managing anaemia, early initiation of breastfeeding and childhood feeding, and immunization⁵Ĩ. Mother and Child Health Weeks⁵⁴ were conducted bi-annually to provide household awareness about child health, provide deworming tablets with refresher trainings to service providers at primary health care facility and conduct catch-up immunization starting from 2007. These campaigns still continue with names of child health and nutrition weeks in certain districts after the eighteenth amendment. An evaluation of mother-child weeks had shown signiöcant improvements in coverage over-time and rated it as a doable strategy for providing a bundle of required interventions at periodic intervals, with low cost (Rs.43) per beneöciary. Recommendations were made to expand the focus to nonLHW areas for equity and invest in communication campaign for raising family awareness and community involvement⁵⁵. Pakistan also piloted the implementation of WHO's revised guidelines of Possible Suspected Bacterial Infection in Sindh⁵⁹ and has started scaling up in four Punjab since 2018. IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 51 28. Trends in childhood mortality, 1990 to 2018 Table 15. Under-öve mortality per 1000 live birth in the Pakistan DHS 2006-07 and Pakistan DHS 2017-18 with rates of change and required pace of decline to achieve the SDG target Pakistan needs investments in strengthening implementation of policies designed to reduce child mortality amongst the most vulnerable. Strengthening birth and death registration and using sentinel sites for surveillance of child deaths are required to guide programmatic improvements. The PDHS