water, using shared toilets, or practicing open defecation. Women and girls often wait until nightfall to defecate, which increases the risk of assault. The shame and indignity of defecating in the open also affects women’s self-esteem, as does a lack of water for washing clothes and personal hygiene. Pakistan’s vulnerability to disasters including earthquakes, floods, droughts, and internal displacement due to conflict, often leaves hundreds of thousands of affected people in need of emergency water and sanitation support. Sustainable access to water, sanitation and hygiene in health centres and schools also remains a challenge especially for girls who lack adequate facilities to manage their menstruation. The effects of climate change and rapid urbanisation also contribute to challenges of improving access to safe water and sanitation. An estimated 70 percent of households still drink bacterially contaminated water. Education High rates of poverty in communities across Pakistan make it difficult for parents to afford school fees and poverty remains the main reason for not sending their children to school. Government has declared free primary public education but has had great difficulty in retaining teachers at the salaries the government can afford to pay. Children especially in rural communities are often denied their rights for education. The studies link education with reduced child and maternal deaths, improved child health, and lower fertility. Women with at least some formal education are more likely than uneducated women to use contraception, marry later, have fewer children, and be better informed on the nutritional and other needs of children. Knowledge based society is an essential factor for economic and social growth of a country. Formal, nonformal and informal education systems are the basic pillars for knowledge-based society. With the advancements of technology in the modern era with 51 94 66 60 97 73 74 97 83 Rural Urban National Flush Toilet (%) 2007-08 2014-15 2019-20 Page | 45 significant change adoption in education system have created new opportunities for developing countries to enhance literacy rate as well as inculcate intellectual capability in the society. Furthermore, Creativity, Critical Thinking, Communication and Collaboration are five necessary educational skills that need to be developed in 21st century generation. Therefore, the policy makers are required to reform their policies and restructure the existing infrastructure to accommodate the challenges. Access to Secondary Education is highly uneven, particularly for girls. There is limited access to secondary schools because there are very few schools,