stages of CKD, leading to lack of preventive measures, which inevitably facilitates progression of mild, potentially treatable CKD to fullblown kidney failure. Where the annual cost of dialysis of a single patient is over $3000, annual per capita income is $1560, and public spending on health is a meagre 1 percent of the gross national product, it is not surprising that only 10 percent receive any renal replacement therapy. Sehat Sahulat Programme is 27 Sohail Akhtar, Jamal Abdul Nasir, Tahir Abbas and Aqsa Sarwar, 2019; Diabetes in Pakistan: A systematic review and meta-analysis Page | 32 currently supporting the poorest families to reduce catastrophic indoor expenditure. Mental disorders: Historically, mental health has been a neglected area in Pakistan, where loss of DALYs due to mental health disorders is also on the rise. Between 1999 and 2009 the country recorded only a 1 percent increase in the loss of mental health disorder related DALYs while between 2009 and 2019 the increase was 8 percent as shown in the figure. Trend of Burden of Mental Health Disorders in Pakistan Mental disorders include a wide range of conditions. GBD 2019 data for Pakistan indicate DALYs loss as a result of mental disorders of around 3.1 million, with three major conditions including depressive disorders, anxiety disorders and schizophrenia. On the other hand, prevalent cases of mental disorders were around 25.7 million, with three major conditions including depressive disorders, anxiety disorders and idiopathic developmental/ intellectual disabilities. Neurological disorders and substance abuse disorders are not included in the mental disorders group but are closely associated. Total DALYs lost in 2019 as a result of neurological disorders was around 2.1 million, whereas that of substance abuse disorder was 0.57 million. Prevalent cases of neurological disorders were around 72.5 million, whereas those of substance abuse disorders were 3.4 million in 2019. Mental disorders are usually not considered a direct cause of death and most of the deaths are categorized under injuries including self-harm etc. More than 85,000 deaths were estimated as a result of injuries in 2019, out of which one third were as a result of selfharm. While it is socially acceptable to seek help from a health professional for physical disorders, seeking help for psychological disorders is problematic in Pakistan. Mental illness is often associated with supernatural forces such as witchcraft, possession, and black magic. Families often hide mental illness to prevent the patient from adverse