progress. Tackling the underlying causes of poor health can contribute to improving health by reducing health inequity. The health sector is pivotal to driving equity, prosperity and inclusive economies but many other sectors, such as finance, housing, employment and education, also have important roles to play. Efforts to reduce health inequities are core investments for achieving inclusive growth and vice versa. There is strong support from the C R O S S S E C T O R A L A N D I N T E R S E C T R O A L Page | 42 public for a more equal society and to invest in the necessary conditions to enable all people to prosper and flourish in life and health. In Pakistan, living in the rural areas would lend itself to a greater risk for mortality and morbidity than living in an urban area. As evident from PDHS 2017-18, childhood mortality rates are higher in rural areas than in urban areas by 10 deaths per 1,000 live births. Neonatal, infant, and under-5 mortality rates are 45, 68, and 83 deaths per 1,000 live births, respectively, in rural areas, as compared to 37, 50, and 56 deaths per 1,000 live births in urban areas. Similarly, being poor makes one more vulnerable to diseases. Mortality rates decrease with increasing wealth. For instance, under-5 mortality rates are 100 deaths per 1,000 live births among children born to women in the lowest wealth quintile but 56 deaths per 1,000 live births among those born to women from the highest quintile, which means that the risk of under-5 mortality is almost twice for the poor. In context of antenatal coverage, urban women are more likely than rural women to receive ANC from a skilled provider (94 percent and 82 percent respectively). Disparities according to socioeconomic characteristics persist; women in the highest wealth quintile (98 percent) and the highest education category (99 percent) are more likely to receive ANC services from a skilled provider than their counterparts in the lowest wealth quintile (67 percent) and with no education (76 percent). The following figure illustrates the framework of social determinants of health and other factors affecting RMNCH outcomes. Among the social determinants of health, level of education, occupation, income, wealth and rural–urban status is important. Outside of the 32 World Economic Forum (WEF) Report on 2021 Global Gender Gap Index (GGGI) social determinants,