increasing equitable coverage of 7 immunization against vaccine preventable diseases (VPD)⁶ . IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 66 Accelerating the progress on family planning, maternal, newborn and child health in a decade demands a de novo approach, high political commitment backed by adequate önancing and the will to make diﬃcult decisions for addressing redundancies and gaining eﬃciency. The recent developments in the RMNCAH+N investment case, UHC Basic Package and renewed Government commitment to invest in health have given an impetus to think bolder and bigger. A few key priorities for action are discussed in this chapter. The private sector caters to almost 70% of all health care service delivery in Pakistan but no system exists to capture their information. Health Care Commissions in Punjab, Sindh and KPK are evaluating private facilities for meeting Minimum Service Delivery Standards. This information is conödential for individual facilities but aggregates can be released periodically to assess progress. There is as yet no provision of capacity building support for public and private health facilities for quality improvement. Private Tracking Eﬀective Quality Coverage and Health Gains Health facility assessments are useful to gauge facility readiness. Punjab, Sindh and ICT have used SARA survey for assessing public health facilities. The öndings from the most recent ICT SARA survey were used to illustrate the gaps in commodities/medicines, staﬃng and availability of services in this report. DHIS reports have the potential of providing real time information from public health facilities. For example, the eﬀect of COVID-19 on health facility usage through DHIS information has enabled the decisionmakers to take timely measures for continuation of essential RMNCAH services. On the other hand, we could not assemble evidence on how the information on staﬀ vacancies, stock-outs and maternal and U5 death is being used. DHIS does not report on causes of newborn deaths nor does it include reporting of still births (antepartum or intra-partum). Data from THQ hospitals and teaching hospitals is not included or linked to DHIS. Any future endeavours in this regard should consider inter-operability. The previous chapters have examined progress for family planning and maternal, newborn and child health using a six-step coverage framework, starting from a target population to (1) service contact, (2) likelihood of services, (3) crude coverage, (4) quality-adjusted coverage, (5) user-adherence-adjusted coverage and (6) outcome-adjusted coverage. Clear inferences can be made only if all the subsequent