accordance with the criteria for a minimum acceptable diet. In Pakistan, 20 percent of newborns started breastfeeding within one hour of birth. 18 Polio Eradication Initiative https://polioeradication.org/where-we-work/polioendemic-countries/ 90 61 68 38 71 73 89 Punjab Sindh KP Balochistan ICT GB AJK Fully Vaccinated Coverage (%) in 2020 12 28.3 18.1 59.6 39.8 54.8 25.6 Punjab Sindh KP Balochistan ICT GB AJK Breast-feeding within 1 hour of birth (%) Page | 27 Acute Respiratory Infections: According to the World Health Organization (WHO) reports, acute respiratory infection (ARI), fever, and dehydration from diarrhoea are some of the main contributing causes of childhood mortality in developing countries. Timely medical intervention for children experiencing any symptoms of the diseases can significantly reduce child deaths. According to PDHS 2017-18, for each child under age 5, mothers were asked if the child had experienced a cough accompanied by short, rapid breathing, or difficulty in breathing as a result of a chest-related problem (symptoms of ARI); a fever; or an episode of diarrhoea in the 2 weeks preceding the survey. Respondents were also asked if treatment was sought when the child was ill. Results showed that 14 percent of children under age 5 showed symptoms of ARI while treatment from a health facility or provider was sought for 84 percent of children with ARI symptoms.16 Moreover, according to the survey results, antibiotic treatment for children with ARI symptoms was sought for only 46.4 percent of the children. Furthermore, there was a correlation between wealth, education and the place of living with awareness about ARIs. Both men and women in urban areas were found to be more aware than their rural counterparts and bettereducated respondents and those in the highest wealth quintile were considerably more knowledgeable of ARI prevention methods than other respondents. Diarrhoea: Diarrhoea accounts for 7.7 percent of all deaths among children in Pakistan. To assess the incidence of diarrhoea, in PDHS 2017-2018 report, for each child under age 5, mothers were asked if the child had experienced an episode of diarrhoea in the 2 weeks preceding the survey. Results showed that treatment was sought from a health facility or health provider for 59.7 percent of children with diarrhoea. Moreover, according to the survey results, children who experienced diarrhoea were 19 percent, care-seeking for diarrhoea was for 71 percent, diarrhoea treatment with oral rehydration salts (ORS) and zinc were available for 8 percent and diarrhoea treatment