number of refugees in the world over the last three decades. Most recent figures from 2021 show that there are 1.4 million Afghan refugees registered in the country. Of the total registered refugees, 40 percent live in refugee villages and 60 percent live in urban areas in Balochistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and Punjab provinces. The most pressing health need is access to emergency and basic health care services such as vaccination, treatment for infectious diseases, malnutrition, psychosocial support, safe maternity care, and safe drinking water and sanitation to prevent the spread of water-borne diseases. Change in the Afghan government possess a threat of another wave of migration to Pakistan. Already Pakistan has to invest heavily to build capacities to control the COVID-19 pandemic. Multiple emergencies at the same time led to heavy burden on already weak economy of the country. To address these issues, Pakistan must continue to improve preparedness, response and recovery in relation to all types of emergencies with health consequences. A joint external evaluation of the Country’s International Health Regulations (IHR) Core Capacities was carried out in 2016. 31 WHO, 2020; Country Cooperation Strategy 2020-25 Review of 19 technical areas to fulfil the IHR requirements to prevent, detect and mount a comprehensive public health response to health threats indicated that preparedness level in Pakistan was at 48 percent.31 While considering 13 core capacities for international comparison, the IHR index is reported to be 53.14 IHR index at provincial level was not estimated in the JEE of 2016. However, values at provincial/ federating areas levels have been estimated by applying weightage of HDI on the JEE score. COVID-19 pandemic has made the Governments realize the need to strengthen core capacities for IHR at national and provincial level. Five major cross-cutting themes include: 1: Continued and expanded multisectoral communication and coordination; 2: Sufficiently funded, widely supported country 5-year plan / roadmap; 3: establish a strong active surveillance and tiered public health laboratory system; 4: develop and enhance regulations, standards and coordination mechanisms for food safety; and 5: National crosssectoral approach. As a result of the COVID-19 epidemic, significant investment has been made on some key strategic areas related to IHR and the index related to IHR is expected to improve over last few years. There is an urgent need for the next round of JEE not only at national level but also at provincial / federating area level. Page |