was the first province to finalize its EPHS document and getting endorsement from its UHC Steering Committee, followed by AJK and GilgitBaltistan. Based on the DCP3 recommendations, work on Intersectoral National Action Framework is also under process. 52 Ministry of NHSR&C and Provincial/ Federating Areas Health Departments. 2020; National Essential Package of Health Services with localized evidence Page | 51 H E A L T H F I N A N C I N G Health financing is a strategic approach to generate, pool, allocate and use financial resources in the health sector including UHC and health system. Apart from revenues that originate from abroad (e.g., external funds from donors), and revenues deriving from natural resources owned by the state, the population is the ultimate source of most of the funds for the system, whether in the form of direct out-of-pocket (OOP) payments for services, insurance contributions, or taxes that people and firms pay to their governments. These funds are pooled by a wide variety of public and private agencies. In Pakistan, prepaid and pooled funds for health remain relatively small and fragmented. Un-pooled, private OOP expenditures comprise the greatest share of resources for the national health sector. Non-government health budget sources of pooled funds for the health sector include private health insurance, and social security funds (which include Zakat, Bait-ul-Mal, ESSI). The de facto pool for most of the population is the government health budget. Government health budgets determine allocations for health down to the district and local government levels. Health care providers and patients/ clients are the end recipients of the health care funds. The three broad categories of the health care providers are public provider, private provider, and non-government organization providers/ non-profit Institutions, and include public and private hospitals, clinics, community health centres in the public and private sectors, private practitioners, traditional health care providers, dispensaries, pharmacies, laboratories, etc. Total health expenditure (THE) is an aggregate of current health expenditure and development expenditure, and for FY 2017-18, it is estimated as Rs, 1,206,332 million by the National Health Account. Compared to FY 2015-16, current, development and total health expenditures show increase of 31.8 percent, 26.4 percent and 31.3 percent respectively. It is illustrated in the diagram below. Out of THE in Pakistan, 40.9 percent is made by general government agents which include the expenditures by territorial governments (federal and provincial governments, and district/tehsil bodies); social security funds;