without suffering financial hardship. In order to achieve UHC, Pakistan has adapted a set of costed priority interventions referred to as UHCBP based on the DCP-3. To achieve UHC, increase access to quality health care services and protect against catastrophic health expenditure, an amount of Rs. 1.28 trillion is required as per resource gap analysis (2019-20) supported by the World Bank/ Global Financing Facility. The government commitment is Rs. 477 billion and donors’ support is Rs. 102 billion. The gap is of Rs. 841 billion which is required to be spent on health sector to progress towards achieving UHC. Pakistan needs to invest more in the health sector to improve social protection and the health of population, preferably through public sector. Policy makers should encourage stable and flexible financial plans along with an increase in budget allocation considering the priorities of the health sector. In order to progress towards the goal of UHC and health emergencies, Pakistan needs to avoid fragmentation, reduce inequity, and maximize purchasing power. Page | 54 Page | 55 C H A L L E N G E S Some of the key challenges in the health sector and more specifically to achieve UHC in Pakistan include the following: Health Governance ▪ Limited institutional capacity o Provincial/ Area level policy analysis, planning, coordination, outsourcing, regulation o District level monitoring, supervision, operational planning ▪ Weak culture of accountability and transparency ▪ Inadequate engagement of the private sector ▪ Limited capacity for ensuring effective decentralization – central, provincial, district levels ▪ Weak health sector and inter-sectoral coordination ▪ Need to regularly review implementation of policy documents ▪ Need to strengthen regulatory bodies and implementation of legislations Service Delivery ▪ Availability: Shortage of health facilities, inequity, limited availability of essential health services; Weak engagement with the Private sector/ General physicians for delivery of EPHS ▪ Accessibility: Physical, financial, social barriers ▪ Quality: Quality standards and regulatory systems ▪ Demand: Low awareness and demand ▪ Coverage: Limited coverage of essential services, biased towards rich and well-off areas – equity issues ▪ Utilization: Low utilization of PHC health services leading to burden on hospitals; poor referral system ▪ Humanitarian Development Nexus to be developed for effective response during emergencies while ensuring sustainability Human Resources for Health ▪ Acute shortage 1.69 essential health force /1000 pop (Target4.45 by 2030) ▪ Inequitable distributionUrban/Rural and declining number of LHWs ▪ Inadequate skill mix ▪