aims to successfully implement the health-related sustainable development agenda in collaboration with provinces, private sector, civil society organizations and other line ministries. The National Health Vision (NHV) 2016-25 and National Action Plan (2019-23) provide an overarching national vision and agreed upon common direction, harmonizing provincial and federal efforts for achieving the desired SDG 3 outcomes and impact. They were designed to represent an aspirational priority action and to set ambitious targets to achieve SDGs including universal access to health services The commitment to “leave no one behind” is a cornerstone of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. But high and rising inequalities act as both visible and concealed impediments to progress in population health and human, social and economic development. Major challenges remain in terms of reducing maternal and child mortality and control of communicable and non-communicable diseases. Priorities for the health service delivery are provision of quality family planning services, tackling undernutrition, addressing the high burden on neo-natal deaths and reducing the numbers of tuberculosis and Page | 16 hepatitis cases. The health agenda in Pakistan also highlights the importance of addressing noncommunicable diseases and their risk factors such as tobacco use, poor diet, mental health problems, road traffic injuries, and environmental health issues. Weak health systems are a major obstacle, resulting in major deficiencies in UHC for even the most basic health services and inadequate preparedness for health emergencies. Localization of SDG 3 targets and indicators has established the leadership role of the health sector in implementation and monitoring of SDG 3 in Pakistan and contributed to multisectoral linkages for achievement of the health-related SDGs. Pakistan is one of the first countries in the Region to reach this milestone and launched SDG 3 localization report in 2018. Timely, reliable, disaggregated and actionable data is the dire need of the present era for driving strategic policy changes. Assessable information is essential to monitor and accelerate progress towards the healthrelated SDGs. In view of the above, Pakistan has developed an SDG 3 web based and mobile application, that provides the information at the national and provincial level for each health-related indicator. The application serves as a mechanism to easily access updated SDG 3 targets for each indicator for Pakistan and check the status of progress. SDG 3 has strong interconnections with other SDGs on poverty, hunger, education, gender equality, water and sanitation, economic growth, inequality, safe cities, climate change and