of developing a UHC Benefit Package of Pakistan/ Essential Package of Health Services (EPHS). Accordingly, a joint federal and provincial request was sent to the DCP3 Secretariat to select Pakistan as the first country adapting DCP3 evidence to develop the EPHS/ UHC benefit package for Pakistan. The provision of essential health services towards achieving UHC and health-related SDGs was underscored in the draft 12th Five-Year Plan (health chapter), and National Action Plan (2019-23). To translate the government commitment into action, the Ministry established a formal collaboration in July 2019 with the DCP3 Secretariat and the World Health Organization (WHO) under a memorandum of understanding and financial support of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF). A series of consultations were held with stakeholders leading to agreement on the objectives, expected outcomes and methods of work. The scientific evidence (burden of disease, targeted population, unit cost, cost49 Ministry of NHSR&C, 2014; National Blood Policy and National Strategic Framework-2014-20 50 Ministry of NHSR&C, 2016; National Strategic Framework for containment of Antimicrobial resistance 51 Ministry of NHSR&C and Provincial/ Area Health Departments, 2020; National Action Framework on Non-communicable diseases and Mental health (2022-30) Page | 50 effectiveness, budgetary impact, expected health gains, health plans, health system capacity and fiscal space etc.) was localized and the process of dialogue and deliberation was ensured on setting priorities and services. The UHC Benefit Package of Pakistan/ Essential Package of Health Services was finalized and endorsed by the Inter-Ministerial Health & Population Council on 22 October 2020.52 In the same meeting, all Health & Population ministers decided to localize scientific evidence at provincial/ federating area level and accordingly develop Provincial / Federating Area EPHS. During 2021, provincial/ federating area level consultations were held not only to localize scientific evidence but also develop costed EPHS documents. Following provincial/ federating area costed EPHS documents were developed during 2021: 1: Punjab EPHS with localized evidence 2: Sindh EPHS with localized evidence 3: Khyber Pakhtunkhwa EPHS with localized evidence 4: Balochistan EPHS with localized evidence 5: Gilgit-Baltistan EPHS with localized evidence 6: Azad Jammu & Kashmir EPHS with localized evidence Sindh was the first province to finalize its EPHS document and getting endorsement from its UHC Steering Committee, followed by AJK and GilgitBaltistan. Based on the DCP3 recommendations, work on Intersectoral National Action Framework is also under process. 52 Ministry of NHSR&C and Provincial/ Federating Areas Health Departments. 2020; National Essential