that their universe is impacted by the political, social, economic and developmental milieu in which they operate. Factors such as illiteracy, unemployment, gender inequality, food insecurity, rapid urbanization, environmental degradation, natural disasters and the lack of access to safe water and sanitation all have the potential to aggravate the state of health of individuals and communities. A large number of preventable deaths and disabilities among children, pregnant/ lactating women, young adults and aging population can be averted by adopting inter-sectoral approach to health. It underscores the need for developing alternative policy approaches, considering the inter-sectoral scope, with careful attention to the social determinants of health and several contemporary considerations that influence health status. The redefining of targets within the health sector is essential to garner support from across various sectors and to incorporate these targets in an explicit policy framework to foster inter-sectoral action. National Health Vision of Pakistan (2016-2025) has been developed on the same principle for achieving the desired health outcomes and to create an impact on health. The concept of inter-sectoral linkages is not simplistic; it requires careful planning using an inclusive and participatory approach. More importantly, it requires the support of not only the line ministries but the other social sectors as well. Thus, forging effective collaborative partnerships and coordination mechanisms, engaging local community, national and international stakeholders, and pursuing the aid effectiveness approaches will be the most rewarding. To conclude, as is evident, UHC will not be easy to accomplish in a huge and diverse country like Pakistan unless all governments and their respective partners will need to work in close harmony and at a pace of efforts never witnessed before. Equity Equity refers to the fact that ‘no discrimination is made on the basis of a person's characteristics such as gender, race, caste, religion, geographic location, and socioeconomic status. According to the WHO Commission on Social Determinants of Health ‘health equity is about equitable distribution of health services in the society and that means distribution in conformity with where the needs are greatest’. Health equity gaps are growing today, despite unprecedented wealth and technological progress. Tackling the underlying causes of poor health can contribute to improving health by reducing health inequity. The health sector is pivotal to driving equity, prosperity and inclusive economies but many other sectors, such as finance, housing, employment and education, also have important roles to play. Efforts to reduce health