for family planning and maternal, newborn and child health using a six-step coverage framework, starting from a target population to (1) service contact, (2) likelihood of services, (3) crude coverage, (4) quality-adjusted coverage, (5) user-adherence-adjusted coverage and (6) outcome-adjusted coverage. Clear inferences can be made only if all the subsequent coverage levels are nested in the preceding ones and population denominator remains constant. For these purposes, PDHS 2017-18 is used as it allows some measure of quality care as well as highlights disparities by province and region, age, urban or rural residence, socio-economic status, sex of the child and mother's educational status. PSLM 2019 oﬀers relatively recent data but does not cover regions (ICT, AJK and GB) and disaggregation variables are limited. Recent MICS data, though more elaborate on content of care, is not available for all provinces/regions. The sample sizes and design of each survey is also diﬀerent which limits the comparability of information. The One Health Survey has been recommended in the past to overcome these limitations and should be seriously considered for eﬃciently managing the data needs. CHAPTER 5: CALL FOR ACTION IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 67 The existing provincial Essential Packages for community based and primary health care and hospital services need a review to align with the newly endorsed UHC BP of services. The implementation of UHC oﬀers the prospect of registration of families and creating unique IDs of patients for electronic medical records. Thus the monitoring and measurement eﬀorts for cohort tracking will be possible to identify lapses in the eﬀective quality coverage. A quality health system is needed to deliver the FP and MNCH interventions for achieving the desired health outcomes. At the current rate of progress, SDG targets for maternal, newborn and child mortality will remain elusive. There are no magic bullet answers for mammoth health system challenges. With the eighteenth amendment in place and health being a provincial responsibility, the departments of health have a pivotal role to play. Provincial lead on health is a great opportunity to situate health in the political priorities of the government and make the improvements at a quicker pace with attention to inter-district disparities and variations. This however runs the risk of fragmentation and lack of a uniöed approach which creates eﬃciencies. The National Ministry of Health Services Coordination and Regulation has successfully provided the platform