most months of the year. These high levels of stockouts will inøuence the choice of contraceptives women have and can lead to disruptions in availability of commodities for users. Family planning stockouts are attributed to weak procurement capacity of provinces after the 18th amendment and passing of procurement function from federal to provincial levels. At the same time USAID's support for contraceptive supply was curtailed. Contraceptive procurement is fragmented by separate purchasing through each provincial health and population welfare department as well as a separate order for LHWs. Moreover contraceptives are not included in the essential medicines list for buying through MSDs. Low quantities do not allow competitive rates at the international market. Recently the Population unit of the National Ministry has started requesting provinces to share their need for a pooled request for bids to get better pricing estimates. IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 16 Table 3. Measuring Quality of Family Planning and Client Satisfaction The month-wise DHIS data on stock-outs illustrate long standing stock-outs of all contraceptives in the later half of 2019, even before the spread of COVID-19. Procurement issues and global supply chain disruptions are the likely causes. The situation of injectables is better due to the local production capacity and minimal reliance on imports. Quality Diﬀerent frameworks are used to measure quality of family planning services. One of the frameworks is outlined below for illustrative purposes. Source: Adapted from Hutchinson et al .Ħ⁹ Ħ⁹ Hutchinson, P.L., Do, M. & Agha, S. Measuring client satisfaction and the quality of family planning services: A comparative analysis of public and private health facilities in Tanzania, Kenya and Ghana. BMC Health Serv Res 11, 203 (2011). https://doi.org/10.1186/1472-6963-11-203 4. Contraceptives stockouts in Public Health facilities (DHIS July 2019-June 2020) IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 17 User uptake: low contraceptive prevalence rates Data for this section is primarily derived from two sources i.e., HMIS (Hospital management information system) and PDHS (Pakistan demographic health survey). Data on family planning visits and methods of modern contraceptives are obtain from HMIS and PDHS. Fertility, unmet need and demand for modern contraceptive related data is derived from PDHS. The use of modern contraceptives in Pakistan was low (25.0% of currently married women in PDHS 2017/18), which slightly lower than in 2012/13, and more than 20% lower than in all