in the future should indicate the effectiveness of this investment. In 2015, 4.5 percent of the people in Pakistan spent more than 10 per cent of their household budget on health care, which is alarming considering the already high poverty index, a reported 51.9 percent out-of-pocket expenditure and a worsening economic situation in the country. Although the burden of disease has declined from 70,086 DALYs lost per 100,000 population in 1990 to 42,059 DALYs lost per 100,000 population in 2019, with improved performance in maternal and child health sectors, the report also highlights the forthcoming challenge of tackling noncommunicable diseases and mental health issues. The categories of Infectious diseases and Services access and capacity also demand immediate attention, while the recent health emergency of COVID-19 pandemic has diverted huge resources for emergency response. So far, the government has spent more than US$ 1.6 billion only on the COVID-19 vaccine and enhancing diagnostic services. This is exceptional commitment on the part of the government. More than half of the burden of disease in Pakistan could be tackled through inter-sectoral policies and interventions. However, that would require a very strong commitment from health and other sectors to work in a unified manner. Ideally, UHC monitoring at the district level should leverage existing health management information system data, but at the same time the information system has infrastructure limitations, serious quality challenges along with incompleteness of data. Further information from private sector is not available. Additional data collection at district level for UHC monitoring should focus on processes and use of low-cost techniques. Health Information System Technical Working Groups (TWGs) at national and provincial level need to develop and implement robust monitoring and evaluation frameworks to rapidly assess the performance of health sector on UHC and suggest remedial measures. What gives us hope is that health departments and district health offices are leading and driving progress towards UHC, recognizing that it is both the right and smart thing to do. Although data availability and analysis are still a challenge – provinces/ federating areas are generating some of the most credible and comparable data on health coverage. However, we all need to be far more ambitious. There is a need for stronger commitment towards -working with provinces, federating areas and districts, -increasing access to essential health services, -ensuring people don’t fall into poverty because of health expenses, and -moving closer to our goal of