Ikhlaq Ahmad, Mr. Khurram Shahzad WHO: Dr. Qudsia Uzma Ħ Amouzou A, et al. BMJ Glob Health 2019;4:i114–i124. doi:10.1136/bmjgh-2018-001297 IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 2 Programmatic interventions for reducing preventable maternal and child mortality and strengthening family planning are dependent upon the ability of the health system to deliver equitable and quality health services. Measuring coverage of key Family Planning and MNCH coverage indicators has been the usual practice. There is a growing realization globally that the increasing rates of skilled birth attendance and facility-based deliveries have not translated into equivalent health and survival outcomes for mothers and newborns; and thus, measuring quality of care and outcomes is equally important. In addition, the service coverage needs to be understood in terms of a client's interface with the health system. A systematic framework is thus necessary to measure dimensions of lack of access, gaps in service readiness and eﬀective coverage, lapses in the provision of quality care and user factors that further reduce the potential impact of interventions on speciöc RMNCH outcomes. This report uses the cascade frameworkĦ in an eﬀort to capture a holistic picture. The Government of Pakistan has recently endorsed the evidence-based Basic Package of UHC interventions at the district level based on the directions inferred from the WHO document on Disease Control Priorities (Third Edition). The Global Financing Facility hosted at World Bank has included Pakistan in the list of eligible countries and an investment case is being prepared in this regard. Consultations are underway to identify the required health system reforms and re-imagine the district health and social protection systems to eﬀectively deliver this Basic Package of interventions. Pakistan has committed to Sustainable Development Goals and targets to be achieved by 2030. These include reducing preventable maternal, neonatal and child mortality and attaining universal health coverage. Ensuring reproductive health rights and provision of quality family planning services remain central to these eﬀorts. With exactly a decade to reach the 2030 mark, this report endeavours to review the past progress and identiöes key areas for future action. Methodology It is indeed timely to synthesize existing data to understand the lapses in the health system and highlight issues of measurements and monitoring. This report analyses gaps and barriers for eﬀective quality coverage of family planning and maternal, newborn and child health (MNCH) services. The topics of nutrition and adolescent health,