list for health insurance such as self-inflicted injuries, cosmetic surgeries, out-patient services, take home medicines, sports injuries etc. For the identifying families living below poverty line, the Sehat Sahulat Programme is using National SocioEconomic Registry (NSER) of Benazir Income Support Programme. The families are those having threshold of PMT 32.5 and below. The data is verified using NADRA support. For the identification of universal, vulnerable and marginalized families, Sehat Sahulat Programme is using NADRA database. Permanent resident families are identified using permanent address on National Identity Card, while families are identified using B form information. Transgender and Disabled information is also extracted using NADRA database. Sehat Sahulat Programme has a wide network of more than 500 panelled hospitals – both in public and private sector across Pakistan. Beneficiary from any districts can avail treatment from any of these panelled hospitals. Other than these social protection programs, poor population also has access to Zakat and ‘Bait-ul-Mal’ funds to pay for health care. Bait-ul-Mal is a publicly funded social protection initiative created for the welfare of vulnerable populations such as the poor, widows, destitute women, orphans and disabled persons. This vulnerable group is supported through general assistance, education, medical treatment and rehabilitation. Any individual can apply for general finance assistance once a year only. Any of the two services i.e. (i) Medical treatment (ii) General financial assistance (iii) Education stipend (iv) Individual rehabilitation may be granted simultaneously within a period of one year to the same applicant. However, general financial assistance and rehabilitation cannot be combined. For IFA (General) preference will be given to widows, the infirm and disabled every year. Other categories of individuals would be catered only twice in the entire life. Preference is given to accommodate them in other dispensations i.e., IFA (Medical), IFA (Education), IFA (Rehabilitation) as per requirement. First time a family that consists of 02 or more disabled person has been given status of Special Friend of Pakistan Bait-ul-Mal. Which means, Pakistan Bait-ul-Mal, provides financial assistance to these special friends amounting to Rs.10,000/to a family having one special person and Rs. 25000 to a family having two or more special persons. Zakat, on the other hand, is a 2.5 percent zakat paid by Muslims on their unused annual savings, which is collected and allocated by the Ministry of Religious Affairs for each province. Health care is one of six programmes administered under the Zakat fund. These