the PDHS 2017-18, about 37% of children with diarrhoea in the last 2 weeks were given ORS and only 1 in 4 (8%) children received zinc with ORS. Only 9% of children who had diarrhoea were given more liquids than usual for rapid rehydration, while 55% were given the same amount as usual and 35% were given somewhat less or much less than usual. Thirty percent of children with diarrhoea received unnecessary antibiotics and 21% received anti-motility drugs. Safe disposal of child faeces is only practiced in 36% of households. Knowledge and counselling skills of service providers need improvement to adhere to evidence-based practices and encourage care-givers to improve quality of early care seeking and appropriate management. Table 21. Vaccine stock out in ICT IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 61 37. Reasons for not visiting Govt. facility örst for diarrhoea treatmentPSLM 2018-19 Care was sought for seventy six percent of children with Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI) but timely careseeking on the same or next day was reported by only 35.6%. Out of 76% children for whom any care was sought, only 50.6% of children received antibiotic for management of ARI. Overall 66% of children age 12-23 months have had all basic vaccines. Childhood vaccinations should be speciöc to the age of the child. Only 51% of children had all age-appropriate vaccinations. Only 4% did not have any type of vaccine at any time before the survey. The WHO Standards for improving quality of care for children and young adolescents aged 0–15 years in health facilities⁶⁴ have been framed in the best interest of children and take into consideration a child's right to health while recognizing that their health, physical, psychosocial, developmental and communication needs diﬀer from those of adults. Evidence based care is required with competent service providers, necessary triaging, nutrition assessment, well equipped facilities, referral support, updated patient records and in line with fulölment of human rights. The gaps in service delivery have been highlighted in the sections above. Examples exist from countries showing post neonatal mortality reduction by improving quality of care⁶⁵. No systematic eﬀort is yet in place to measure and implement standards of care for children and young adolescents. Who is left behind? Urban rural disparity and diﬀerentials in Infant Mortality Rates by education status of the mother were noted in the recent PSLM 2019. ⁶⁴ Standards for