KMC units. Linkages with local BHUs and follow-up by LHWs needs to be developed. Propositions to scale-up KMC include three pathways: 1) champion-led approach in which a small group led by community person initiates and maintains the KMC intervention; 2) the project-initiated approach focused on project driven and donor funded implementation of KMC and 3) the approach of health systems redesigning incorporated KMC in the existing health system structure. A study had advocated that the combination of all three pathways may lead to a more rapid scale-up of KMC even in resource constrained settings, such as rural Pakistan. According to the PDHS 2017-18, 22% of all live births had low birth weight. One-third (34%) of live births to mother's under age 20 had a low birth weight compared with one öfth (21%) of births to mothers age 20-34. Babies of high birth order are more likely to be of low birth weight. Twenty-öve percent of live births with a birth order of 6 or higher had a low birth weight compared with 21% of those with a birth order of 2-5. Similarly, babies born to mothers who smoke cigarettes were more likely to have a low birth weight than babies born to mothers who did not smoke (28% and 22%, respectively). Babies born in households in the lowest wealth quintile were more likely (33%) to be of low birth weight than those born in households in the highest quintile (19%). Punjab had the highest percentage of babies (24%) with a 75% of tertiary hospitals in ICT were providing counselling on immediate and exclusive breastfeeding compared to 60% RHCs. IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 44 Increasing facility births have not led to a proportional decline in the neonatal mortality in Pakistan. Poor quality of care at birth and during the postnatal period is evident in maternal counselling, skin to skin contact after birth and measuring weight at birth, as they are particularly low in all provinces and regions. Eﬀective quality coverage: issues of prioritization and measurement reported birth weight of less than 2.5 kilograms. It is closely followed by Sindh at 23%. In Pakistan, 860,000 babies are born too soon (preterm: <37 weeks gestation) each year and 101,600 children under öve die due to direct preterm complications⁴⁷. Table 13. Key maternal and newborn indicators regionswise The UNICEF and AKU study on small and