are also providing condoms and hormonal pills and injectable contraceptivesĦ⁶. Ħ⁶ Population Council July 2019, “Improving Access to Family Planning Services through the Private Sector in Pakistan – A Stakeholder Analysis” commissioned by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) accessed at https://www.familyplanning2020.org/sites/default/öles/Private-Sector-Stakeholder-Analysis-July-15_aa3.pdf 3. Source of supply for current modern method users, by residence and province IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 15 Ħ⁷ Azmat SK et al. (2012)Barriers and perceptions regarding diﬀerent contraceptives and family planning practices amongst men and women of reproductive age in rural Pakistan: a qualitative study. Pak J Public Health 2:1 Ħ⁸ Luke Boddam-Whetham, Xaher Gul, Eman Al-Kobati, Anna C Gorter. “Vouchers in Fragile States: Reducing Barriers to LongActing Reversible Contraception in Yemen and Pakistan” Global Health: Science and Practice Aug 2016, 4 (Supplement 2) S94S108; DOI: 10.9745/GHSP-D-15-00308 A qualitative study, documented that FP is considered as an additional expenditure by male partners. Besides access, another barrier towards use includes aﬀordability, where frequency of use and choice of method was aﬀected by önancial limitationĦ⁷. Financial barriers to access can be gleaned from the fact that the current users of modern FP are signiöcantly higher in the highest income quintile compared the poorest quintile. Modern contraceptive use among currently married women increases according to wealth quintile, from 17% for women in the lowest quintile to 30% for those in the highest quintile. A study by Marie Stopes found that vouchers enabled 10 times more women than expected to choose LARCs (Long Acting Reversible Contraceptives) and PMs (Permanent Methods) in those areas of Pakistan (73,639 vs. 6,455 expected)Ħ⁸. Readiness and quality of services: concerns about stockouts The routine health information systems (DHIS2) can provide information on the availability of family planning commodities at public health facilities. Figure 2 shows the proportion of all public health facilities that had stockouts of speciöc FP commodities during July 2019 and June 2020. Stockouts were common for nearly all contraceptives, often exceeding half of all reporting health facilities. Injectables had the lowest rate of stockouts but were still as high as 20% of facilities during most months of the year. These high levels of stockouts will inøuence the choice of contraceptives women have and can lead to disruptions in availability of commodities for users. Family planning stockouts are attributed to weak procurement capacity of provinces after the 18th amendment and passing of procurement function from