5. Targeting the poor, the rural and the un-educated is imperative for reducing the coverage disparities. Linking health sector eﬀorts with poverty reduction, nutrition sensitive and social protection initiatives will bring eﬃciency and reduce duplication. 7. Improving timely referral of complicated cases by expanding pooled ambulance services and linking district level facilities with pre-identiöed teaching hospitals. Laying out clear referral protocols and responsibilities at each level of health system is needed. 8. Digital innovations for improving data recording and reporting as well as improving LMIS and increasing awareness through mobile messaging 9. Investing in research and information system for tracking eﬀective quality coverage; accounting for the private sector; bridging data gaps for CRVS (Civil Registration and Vital Statistics); birth weight measurement, reporting of still births and standardized measures for determining quality of care and cohort tracking. Extensive investment is required to scale-up and streamline MPDSR and link these eﬀorts with continuous quality improvement. 10. Developing inter-sectoral linkages for addressing the underlying risk factors of low female social status, malnutrition, air pollution and inadequate WASH behaviours. 3. Providing operational support to RMNCH acceleration package by UHC structures or RMNCH+N directorates with quality of care units to provide support for implementing evidence-based MNCH and FP standards IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 6 INTRODUCTION Pakistan is committed to the Sustainable Development Goals and national targets have been set for the health sector. With a decade to achieve 2030 targets, the National Ministry of Health Services Coordination and Regulation and Health Services Academy are initiating a series of annual reports to review progress and guide action. This örst report focuses on family planning, maternal, newborn and child health; and reviews the progress on SDGs and related targets for MNCH. The objective is to inform the Parliamentary Committee for Health and stakeholders for political advocacy and to garner the required policy and budgetary support. The timing of the preparation of this report has coincided with current dialogue on development of an investment case for Universal Health Care Beneöt Package and planning of RMNCAH+N through a trust fund by the Global Financing Facility to Pakistan. This report has beneötted from and intends to contribute to these simultaneously on-going processes by highlighting trends, inequalities in access and utilization of RMNCAH+N services and identifying priorities for action. Background This work has been possible through the generous grant of Bill and