and significant displacement. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) reported severe damage to healthcare infrastructure, with 2,000 hospitals and clinics affected. The stagnant water in many regions poses ongoing health risks, with the WHO expressing concern about potential outbreaks of diseases (Jolley et al., 2008; Braverman & Gruskin, 2003). Addressing these challenges requires comprehensive policy decisions to improve healthcare availability and accessibility. Primary care is essential for promoting better health outcomes, reducing hospitalization and mortality rates, and increasing life expectancy. Despite these benefits, gaps in healthcare provision in Pakistan's rural areas persist. The study aims to identify and address these gaps, contributing to the goal of universal health coverage and improving the overall health and well-being of Pakistan's rural population. LITERATURE REVIEW Pakistan's health care system is a mix of government, parastatal, commercial, civil society, charitable, and donor-funded programmes. The four pillars of Pakistani healthcare access are prevention, promotion, treatment, and rehabilitation. At the federal and provincial levels, Pakistan's Ministry of Health is responsible for overseeing healthcare, while the provincial health departments are responsible for delivering public health services to the general populace. According to the Economic Survey of Pakistan (2020-21), Pakistan's government spent 0.75 percent of the country's GDP on improving the health of its citizens (Ullah et al., 2021). The average cost of health care in Pakistan is $17.61 per person per year (Habib & Zaidi, 2021). Several government-funded projects, both vertical and horizontal in scope, can be found in Pakistan. National Maternal and Child Health Program (EMCHHP), Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI), Cancer Treatment Program (CTP), Food and Nutrition Program (FNP), Prime Minister Programme for Prevention and Control of Hepatitis A and B (PMPP) are just a few of the vertical programmes funded by the federal government. The Government of Pakistan's Devolution Plan for 2019 also pertains to the public sector. Thus, Pakistan's military government initiated a political devolution campaign in 2000, which it said was intended at handing over administrative and financial control to local governments. As explained by President Pervez Musharraf, the goal of the plan was to increase local authority and responsibility while also "empowering the destitute." There is no evidence that the new system has reduced corruption or demonstrated clear responsibility at the local level, and it has weakened existing political parties. Military control has been reinforced and the possibility of internal strife has increased as a result. Besides, nearly every aspect of