While it is socially acceptable to seek help from a health professional for physical disorders, seeking help for psychological disorders is problematic in Pakistan. Mental illness is often associated with supernatural forces such as witchcraft, possession, and black magic. Families often hide mental illness to prevent the patient from adverse stereotyping. The psychological health care system is deficient in Pakistan, and the way it is mainly managed explains why accessing psychological help is a taboo subject. At the time of independence in 1947, there were three mental asylum-like hospitals, one each at Hyderabad, Lahore, and Peshawar, with a total of 2000 beds. These were in a miserable shape with no psychiatrists and managed by medical officers only. These hospitals were called madhouses or “pagal khanay” and patients were often brought there in chains. Seven decades after independence, the health care system is still not adequate. Whereas the median number of mental health beds per 100,000 population is above 50 in high-income countries, and 11.3 in the more developed countries of the Eastern Mediterranean Region, this figure is around 1.7 for Pakistan. A recent survey showed that nearly a third of the respondents believed that people fail to access mental health services because mental health professionals are not accessible. Given the limited fiscal space available for mental health, it should at least sensitize the people that mental disorders are just like physical disorders. Chronic respiratory diseases: In this NCD group, major diseases include chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), pneumoconiosis, asthma, interstitial lung disease and pulmonary sarcoidosis and other chronic respiratory diseases. COPD and asthma form the major burden in this group with annual DALYs loss of 1.7 million and 0.56 million respectively in 2019. Number of cases of the two diseases were 3 million and 3.2 million respectively in 2019. Chronic respiratory diseases contribute to more than 82,000 annual deaths and the number is rising with Page | 33 increasing environmental pollution/ smoke. Asthmatics were more likely to report history of allergies. The rate of asthma increases as communities become more urbanized. On-going pandemic of COVID-19 may have late complications of increasing chronic respiratory diseases. Risk Factors: In the context of NCD diseases in Pakistan, key risks factors prioritized include: 1) Unhealthy diets, 2) Tobacco use; 3) Air pollution; and 4) Physical inactivity also contributing to high plasma glucose and high low-density lipoproteins. Out of these, Tobacco use is also one