streaming SDGs in plans, policies and resource allocation aligned to 2030 Agenda The inter-ministerial eﬀorts are also replicated at sectoral levels. In 2019, a SDG localization report⁴ on Health was prepared by Health Services Academy, Islamabad in partnership with MoHSR&C, provincial/regional health departments and WHO. The report called for ölling the existing gaps in information, and for developing a regular system of reporting and monitoring progress in health with respect to SDGs. Current Situation of Family Planning and MNCH in Pakistan Pakistan, as the öfth most populous country in the world has its fair share of health challenges. Health system inadequacies, poverty, malnutrition, high fertility rate, low social status of women, environmental problems and risk of natural disasters are some of the realities hindering the achievement of SDG targets. The country lags well behind most developing countries in access to essential health services and health equity. ⁴ Saima Hameed, Mariyam Sarfraz 2019 SDG-3 Localization in Pakistan, Health Services Academy Islamabad, MoHSR&C and WHO. ⁵ Jamil Arshad and Raza Zaidi, Situation Analysis 2020 Universal Health Coverage PAKISTAN: Towards Health for All by All in Pakistan, MOHSR&C, Provincial Governments of Punjab, Sindh, KPK, Baluchistan, GB and WHO. ⁶ https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.DYN.CDRT.IN?locations=PK The current population growth rate is estimated around 2.1 % in 2018⁶. Pakistan still has a high fertility The country's extremely high fertility is the result of inadequate and fragmented services that fail to meet contraceptive needs and a preference for large families that reøects women's traditional status. Neonatal mortality is among the highest in the world and half of the infant deaths result from poor maternal health and nutrition. High out of pocket health expenditures and social constraints present serious constraints to use limited services. However, some positive developments over the last few decades resulting in the reduction of maternal mortality, improvement in skilled birth attendance and immunization coverage, have been noted⁵. Pakistan is second to Sri Lanka in Maternal Mortality Ratio but has fallen behind its neighbours in contraceptive prevalence rates and neonatal and under-öve mortality. Table 1: Pakistan vis-a-vis its regional neighbours IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 8 rate of 3.6 children per woman in PDHS 2017-18, with higher levels in rural areas. Life expectancy at birth has improved to 68 years (66 years for males and 70.1 years for females) in 2017 and is slightly lower than the global average⁷. Maternal,