DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 21 Disruption in family planning services could be minimized through a) preparedness actions, b) crisis response, and c) coordinated transition back to routine services. There is every possibility that due to partial lock downs, facilities may face further stock out of commodities and health workers being overwhelmed with work regarding the other duties assigned for COVID 19 response. These can result in unwanted pregnancies, induced abortions and potential morbidity of unsafe abortions. Increasing domestic violence is another sequel of the COVID-19 related lock down and economic hardship. Unemployment and inability to feed the children has increased friction between spouses and violence at home. A third of the women reported violence under lockdown. Most women who experienced domestic violence reported humiliation and insults (87%), but in a few cases, there was also physical violence, and the perpetrators were almost always husbandsħ⁷. ħ⁷ Population Council and UNFPA 2019.“Reproductive Healthcare in the Time of COVID-19: Perspectives of Poor Women and Service Providers from RahimYar Khan, Punjab” IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 22 CHAPTER 2. MATERNAL HEALTH Table 4: Main points IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 23 The assessment of progress uses the cascade of eﬀective coverage. Several steps in the cascade have a good level of available data from the national (especially PDHS 2017/18) and provincial surveys (MICS), public sector health facility data, health facility assessments and research. It is possible to identify areas of progress and major challenges. This chapter assesses: l level and trends of the antenatal, natal and postnatal care By 2030, the SDG target (3.1.1) is that the country reduces its maternal mortality ratio to 70 per 100,000 live births or less. In 2018, the Government of Pakistan has made a commitment to increase ANC4 and SBA coverage to >90% and reduce MMR by less than 70 by year 2030. l access to services, readiness and quality of services Program implementation eﬀorts Pakistan started investing in a network of service delivery infrastructure of Basic Health Units, Rural Health Centers and Tehsil and District level hospitals since the 1960s. Doctors, Nurses, Lady Health Visitors, Family Welfare Workers and Community midwives are qualiöed as skilled birth attendants. A breakthrough in community based maternal and child health services was observed with the launch of the National Programme for Family planning and Primary