used for the national report categorises Pakistan as a country with a medium level of development.7 This figure differs from the global HDI 0.557 calculated for Pakistan in the HDR Indices 20198, that accordingly ranked Pakistan 154th out of 189 countries and classified it as a country with medium human development. This difference in score was due to use of different methodology and data, as well as different cut-offs in the estimation at national vs international level. Corruption is a major risk for health sector as it destroys lives and communities, and undermines countries and institutions. It generates popular anger that threatens to further destabilise societies and exacerbate violent conflicts. The Transparency International (TI) indicates that the perceived level of public sector corruption (on a scale of 0 100, where 0 means that a country is perceived as highly corrupt and 100 means it is perceived as very clean) is low (31) for Pakistan and it ranks on the 124/180 countries in 2020. Pakistan has made little or no progress towards tackling the menace of financial misconduct. With weak financial institutions, low tax collection and distribution system, weak accounting & audit system and weak budgeting processes the fiduciary risks are high. This also leads to risk of material irregularities resulting in losses of all kinds, over charging (procurement), theft or misuse of assets (computers and cars), losses of cash due to fraudulent activities etc. 8 UNDP, 2020; Human Development Indices and Indicators 2019 Statistical Update Page | 8 Page | 9 H E A L T H S I T U A T I O N Investment in health improves health outcomes, reduces poverty and contributes in promoting economic growth. Better health and improved health systems also enable a country to tackle health emergencies and ensure national security. With poor health status in Pakistan, another major challenge during 2021 was the continuing negative impact of COVID-19 epidemic, particularly for those who are poor or vulnerable, women and children, youth, persons with disabilities, people living with diseases, older people, refugees, internally displaced persons and migrants. Pakistan is currently going through epidemiological and demographic transitions. However, both transitions in Pakistan are slow compared to other countries in the region. Epidemiological transition considers patterns of mortality change and causes of death (and sometimes ill health) from patterns dominated by maternal & child health and infectious diseases to those in which chronic, degenerative physical