chapter assesses: l quality of essential newborn care and for the small and sick newborns This chapter brieøy reviews the main policies and targets for neonatal health and describes the main program implementation eﬀorts and larger epidemiological context of neonatal mortality trends in Pakistan. Program Implementation Eﬀorts Main Policies By 2030, the SDG target (3.2.2) is that the country reduces its Neonatal Mortality Rate to less than 12 per 1000 live births. In 2018, the Government of Pakistan has made a commitment to reduce NMR by less than 12 by year 2030. l extent to which services are received and used ( PNC ) and Pakistan beneötted from being in the Saving Newborn Lives (SNL-1) with considerable advocacy eﬀorts in early 2000s. Capacity building for essential newborn care, birth asphyxia management and nationIMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 36 An assessment on small and sick newborn care was conducted in 2019 in selected hospitals of Pakistan and has revealed stark gaps in care for small and sick newborns. Perinatal death reviews are still isolated eﬀorts though preliminary quality of care eﬀorts have been initiated in selected tertiary hospitals. The cost of maternity care and hospital admissions for small and sick newborns is covered under the “sehat sahulat” programme for impoverished families. Research eﬀorts have included implementation of a set of low cost community-based intervention packages carried out by Lady Health Workers. The study has shown signiöcant improvements in household newborn care practices and reduction in neonatal mortality ratesĨ⁴Ĩ⁵. Another clusterrandomised trial demonstrated that community intervention by the LHW programme led to a 20% reduction in neonatal mortality and was associated with signiöcant improvements in household practices and newborn care practices. However, overall eﬀective coverage by functional LHWs was only 48%, and they were able to perform resuscitation in only 4% of potentially eligible neonates with birth asphyxia. The intervention had no eﬀect on cause-speciöc neonatal mortality due to asphyxia or suspected serious infections. No eﬀects on care seeking for facility births and stillbirths in the intervention clusters. The implementation of a set of low cost community-based intervention package within the health system settings in Gilgit region was found to be feasible and beneöcial. Signiöcant reductions in perinatal and neonatal mortality rates were noted. Current eﬀorts for implementing homewide tetanus vaccination campaigns for women of reproductive age was conducted. Later, National MNCH programme scaled