kilograms. It is closely followed by Sindh at 23%. In Pakistan, 860,000 babies are born too soon (preterm: <37 weeks gestation) each year and 101,600 children under öve die due to direct preterm complications⁴⁷. Table 13. Key maternal and newborn indicators regionswise The UNICEF and AKU study on small and sick newborn care revealed that most of the facilities lacked Kangaroo Mother Care Units and do not routinely undertake maintenance of incubators, radiant warmers and phototherapy lights; only 13 % facilities had a training of staﬀ on counseling of parents; 39% of the facilities were designed as “baby friendly”; 35% facilities monitored their nosocomial infection rates; and approximately 40% of the facilities lacked authority over budget. Majority of the facilities did not conduct inter-disciplinary (87%) and management team meetings (83%). Perinatal and neonatal death reviews was not a common practice across 57% of the surveyed facilities. Patient record reviews showed that none of the facilities record all essential aspects in newborn assessment and admission history and none ⁴⁷ https://www.healthynewbornnetwork.org/hnn-content/uploads/Pakistan20171.pdf IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 45 of the facilities undertook the complete newborn assessment. None of the facilities had compiled information on neonatal deaths and stillbirths; recording of very low birth weight was missing in most (75%) of the facilities and most (77%) of the facilities did not receive feedback on out-referrals. The study also captured experiences and perceptions of caregivers' regarding önancial burden during their stay in the facility. Around 90% of the caregivers reported spending out of pocket payments to bear expenses for infant care. 54% of the caregivers considered out of pocket payment expensive. 25. Experience and perceptions of caregivers' regarding önancial burden during their stay in the facility. Improving quality of care for small and sick newborns has shown signiöcant impact on reducing Neonatal Mortality Rate in multiple settings⁴⁸. Having standardized recording and reporting tools, setting up quality of care teams and supporting them with training and enabling environment, perinatal death reviews and family-centred care are some of the successful strategies that can be adopted. Orientation of service providers on WHO's standards for small and sick newborn care⁴⁹ is in dire need. Sick newborn care has been included in the list of services covered under the 'sehat sahulat' card scheme. The direct medical costs are covered, however it is clear that other major costs of diapers, food and transport