of family planning services through primary healthcare approach. Without any further delay, this is a critical reform for improved health status of people of Pakistan and also for demographic dividend. 11 UN Interagency Group, 2015-20; Levels & Trends in Child Mortality 12 https://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.DYN.CDRT.IN?locations=PK COVID-19 pandemic and health emergencies also determine the health status of a country. The novel coronavirus, COVID-19 (or SARS-COV-2) is a highly communicable disease, labelled as a modern-era pandemic and a public health emergency by the World Health Organization. Spreading throughout the world, it has infected millions, and claimed the lives of more than 5.27 million people, as of December 2021. Countries all over the world are faced with the unenviable challenge of balancing the health of their citizens — with stay-athome orders, closure of industries, etc — and the need to ensure that social safety nets to maintain the livelihoods of the poorest demographics also remain functional. In Pakistan, COVID-19 cases were reported from Islamabad and Karachi on February 26, 2020. Pakistan being one of the densely populated countries in Asia, with a population of 232 million, and Karachi being the largest metropolitan city in Pakistan, has been greatly vulnerable to this outbreak. The administration had a huge responsibility to constrain the spread through a timely response and the adoption of appropriate measures to avoid any major catastrophe. The disease was initially difficult to contain, especially because of noncompliance of the general population to the necessary measures and timely reporting of symptoms. Within 45 days, on April 10, 2020, Pakistan reported 4,601 confirmed cases with a death toll approaching 66 individuals. The government of Pakistan has been lauded by international organizations including the WHO (and rightly so) for taking the necessary precautions and measures against the COVID-19 pandemic early on to guarantee not only the containment of disease spread but also to fulfil its responsibility as a state toward its people and their safety One of the first steps taken by the government was to develop a functional National Command and Control Centre (NCOC) and to detect the route of disease spread in Pakistan. The origin of the virus was the first question; hence, detailed history-taking of patients was crucial not only in understanding the outbreak but also in determining the contacts of patients with other people in the community. This helped in cordoning off areas or home-bounding people who came in close contact with a