of primary health care facilities operational 24/7. Quality of care is a concern and respectful maternity care needs more emphasis. Unnecessary caesarean deliveries are rising amongst the richest and highly educated women. Data gaps from private sector services and on causes and drivers of maternal deaths are noted. Areas of programmatic improvement include strengthening CRVS, maternal death notiöcation and expanding MPDSR to all districts. Since 1990, Pakistan has steadily reduced maternal, newborn and under-öve mortality rates and improved use of modern methods of family planning. The current average annual rates of improvement need signiöcant acceleration to meet the SDG targets for health by 2030. The review of existing data has highlighted multiple losses in the cascade to eﬀective coverage from availability, accessibility and quality of services to the actual attainment of health impact. Main Findings During the last few decades, fertility has been declining in Pakistan at a slow pace but slowed down in the most recent period 2013-2018 (average annual rate of decline of 1.1% per year), despite the stronger political commitment to reducing fertility. Total fertility was 3.6 children per woman by 2017/18, fueling a continued rapid population growth and a relatively large proportion of higher risk deliveries. . The use of modern contraceptives in Pakistan remained low (25.0% of currently married women in PDHS 2017/18), and the desire for children high (3.9 children for women, 4.3 for men). If couples want fewer children in the near future, the demand for modern contraceptives will increase rapidly, and further strengthening of the family planning (FP) services is needed. Multiple interventions need to be strengthened to increase FP coverage in line with government targets such as promoting post-partum FP to avail missed opportunity of rising institutional deliveries, addressing the causes of contraceptive stock outs and scaling up safe post abortion care services. ħ 2005 and 2018 are the midpoints of the 3-year period of the retrospective maternal mortality estimates. IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 4 incremental improvements. A national neonatal survival strategy with provincial benchmarks, costed plan and adequate önancing is critical to accelerate progress. Human Resource strategy including task shifting and competence based capacity building is needed. A plan for developing cadres of neonatologists, neonatal nurses and auxiliaries for neonatal intensive care units is urgently required. Accelerating the progress on Family Planning, Maternal, Newborn and Child Health in a decade demands