women, whereas only 22.6 percent of Pakistan’s labour income goes to women. Further, women do not have equal access to justice, ownership of land and nonfinancial assets or inheritance rights. On a more positive note, there are signs of improvement in the share of women who are in professional and technical roles (25.3 percent, up from 23.4 percent in the previous edition of the index). Just 81.1 percent of Pakistan’s Educational Attainment gap has been closed, with gender gaps as large as 13 percent or more across all levels of education. These gaps are the widest at lower education levels (84.1 percent primary enrolment gap closed) and are somewhat narrower for higher education levels (84.7 percent gap closed in secondary enrolment and 87.1 percent closed in tertiary enrolment). Further, only 46.5 percent of women are literate, 61.6 percent attend primary school, 34.2 percent attend high school and 8.3 percent are enrolled in tertiary education courses. Pakistan has closed 94.4 percent of its Health and Survival gender gap, negatively impacted by wide sex ratio at birth (92 percent) due to gender-based sexselective practices, and 85 percent of women have suffered intimate partner violence. In health, the gap widened to 94.6 percent which means that women in the country do not have the same access to healthcare as men28. To bridge the gap in access to UHC, the issue of gender disparity needs to be tackled to ensure equitable health services provision. Nutritional disparities Nutritional disparity is related to deep-rooted patriarchal norms and practices. These foment genderbased discrimination in food consumption. They also affect the knowledge, attitudes and practices of women, in particular, and of caregivers in general, in terms of child and adolescent food intake and well-being. Maternal nutritional status is inextricably linked to the nutritional status of children. Some parts of Pakistan experience droughts that took the lives of many people and their livestock. Herd sizes become smaller than normal owing to drought and usually take several years to recover, leaving households with insufficient assets for food purchases. According to National Nutrition survey 2018 and PDHS 2017-18 the prevalence of stunting under 5 years is static for last two years indicating chronic under-nutrition problem in the country. Geographically disagregated data for stunting is important to understand the seriouness of stunting in specific areas as shown below and accordingly need for appropriate response. Safe Water and Adequate Sanitation Safe drinking-water, sanitation