with a postnatal check by these providers was higher among örst births (69%), those whose mothers had higher education (85%), and those born to mothers in the highest wealth quintile (86%). Assessment of progress 23. PNC signal functions performed (PDHS 2017-18) Similar provincial variations for PNC signal functions are also seen whereby all regions show a higher coverage for cord examination but low on skin to skin contact and measuring weight at birth. IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 41 While WHO guidelines recommend four PNC visits, there is a lack of understanding and clear programmatic guidance on number of visits, timing and reporting for health providers. PNC checklists were developed for LHWs but no updates are available on their use. Currently, no additional home visits are speciöed for low birth weight (LBW) and pre-term newborns. Pre-discharge PNC for newborns delivering at health facilities needs improvement with explicit guidelines and job-aids. Service availability and readiness: gaps in essential newborn care and facilities for small and sick newborn care Pakistan needs to align its service packages to the recent UNICEF and WHO guidance for setting up essential, specialized and intensive care for newborns. The Universal Health Care district implementation package provides an immediate opportunity to include and scale-up the required neonatal care interventions at appropriate levels of care. 24. Coverage of PNC signal functions IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 42 Table 11: Standards of care and evidence-based interventions Facility readiness was also very low in ICT (SARA Survey 2019), whereby 31 facilities varying from tertiary hospitals to BHUs showed the following percentage availability of newborn care services. Sepsis is a major cause of neonatal death but stark deöciencies exist in managing PSBI (Possible Suspected Bacterial Infections). In Punjab, only 10.9% medical oﬃcers and 2.7% other relevant staﬀ at PHC Facilities were trained on Integrated Management of Newborn and Childhood Illness (IMNCI) guidelines. Availability of medicines varied from 35% in primary facilities to 84% in referral facilities⁴⁴. ⁴⁴ PSBI baseline Assessment Report 2018, Bureau of Statistics BOS, Govt. of Punjab ⁴Ĩ Survive and thrive: transforming care for every small and sick newborn. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2019. Licence: CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 IGO. Table 12. Facility readiness in ICT (SARA Survey 2019) Table: Inpatient care for small and sick newborns: requirements for care at diﬀerent health system levels⁴Ĩ