increasing chronic respiratory diseases. Risk Factors: In the context of NCD diseases in Pakistan, key risks factors prioritized include: 1) Unhealthy diets, 2) Tobacco use; 3) Air pollution; and 4) Physical inactivity also contributing to high plasma glucose and high low-density lipoproteins. Out of these, Tobacco use is also one of the UHC indicators for NCD. The STEPwise approach to Surveillance (STEPS) survey of 2013-201428 shows that prevalence of current tobacco smokers in Pakistan are 13.9 percent in both genders combined. Smoking is more prevalent among males (27.8 percent) while 4.2 percent of the females are smokers, average age to start smoking is 22.1 (21.422.9). According to GATS 2014, in Pakistan, the prevalence of tobacco product use is very high (19.1 percent) particularly among men (31.8 percent) and women (5.8 percent). Exposure to second-hand smoke was observed in 86 percent of restaurants while it was 76 percent on public transportation, indicating that ban on tobacco use in public places is not being followed.29 Tobacco use in Pakistan is also on the rise with the advent of novel products. Overall, 19.1 percent adults were currently using tobacco products bifurcated into 12.4 percent who smoked tobacco, and 7.7 percent who use smokeless tobacco. According to Global Youth Tobacco Survey (GYTS 2013), among the youth (13-15 years of age students), 10.7 percent of school students (13.3 percent boys and 6.6 percent girls) currently use tobacco. Overall, 21.0 percent of students are exposed to second-hand smoke in their homes and 37.8 percent were exposed to smoke inside enclosed public places. 28 PHRC, WHO and M/o NHSR&C, 2016; NCD Risk factors survey (STEPS) Pakistan Despite having a comprehensive law, the enforcement has been an issue. A recent WHO study implemented by the Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (PBS) in collaboration with the Ministry of NHSR&C to monitor the compliance to smoke free laws and tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship (TAPS) suggested high levels of noncompliance which was around 36 percent. Category 4: Services Access and Capacity For UHC service coverage index, the services access and capacity (SAC) category consists of four proxy and priority indicators related to: i) Hospital Beds density; ii) Essential Health Workforce density; iii) Access to Essential Medicines, Vaccines and Commodities; and iv) Capacities for International Health Regulations (IHR). Information on ‘Access to Essential Medicines, Vaccines and Commodities’ is not currently monitored at global or national level for UHC reporting. SAC aggregate score