of crops are likely to increase yields in future. The annual cost of Pakistan's imports usually exceeds its earnings from exports, and is responsible for the increasing current account deficit. The chief imports are petroleum, machinery, plastics, transportation equipment, edible oils, paper, iron and steel, and tea. Exports include textiles and clothing, rice, leather and sporting goods, chemicals, and carpets. The chief trading partners are the United States, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, and China. With the passage of time, urbanization (Immigration, from both within and outside the country, is regarded as one of the main factors contributing to urbanisation in Pakistan) is increasing rapidly. Market driven factors have resulted in diversification of occupations and services sector has recently surpassed other sectors. Share of the agriculture sector in the 2017-18 GDP was only 19 percent, industrial sector 21 percent and that of services sector 60 percent. Share of the agriculture sector in the 2020-21 GDP slightly improved to 19.2 percent, declined in industrial sector to 19.1 percent and improved that of services sector to 61.7 percent. 5 PSPD Report “Updating Pakistan’s Poverty Numbers for the Year 2019” Page | 7 The political climate is currently stable but unpredictable. Pakistan’s last thirteen years of continuation of democratic process is a very positive sign, while considering the fact that country faced multiple security, economic and political challenges over the period. Current parliament, provincial assemblies and governments are based on elections held in July 2018, have around two years before holding the next elections. Successful elections were also held in GB and AJK recently. Local government elections are also expected in near future. Both Pakistani and international experts see the period (2018-23) as the best chance in a generation for sustainable peace and development with some risks. There are signs of more stability in the provincial governments and more positive reforms are expected to strengthen the local/district governments. Considering coalition governments at national and provincial levels and expected formation of new provinces/ administrative areas, there is a risk that the governments may face political challenges which may have a negative impact on a credible long-term approach to the development objectives including the health sector. Pakistan is located in a very sensitive geo-political area. Regional and global politics also need to be monitored carefully, as this can have a significant impact on development opportunities including health. The Bertelsmann Stiftung’s Transformation Index (BTI) measures