factors that further reduce the potential impact of interventions on speciöc RMNCH outcomes⁸. ⁷ Institute of Health Metrics & Evaluation (IHME), 1990-2017; BOD data for Pakistan: https://vizhub.healthdata.org/gbd-compare/ ⁸ Amouzou A, et al. BMJ Glob Health 2019;4:i114–i124. doi:10.1136/bmjgh-2018-001297 IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 9 Target population Service contact Likelihood of service Crude coverage Quality-adjusted coverage User-adjusted coverage Outcome-adjusted coverage Population in need Visits health service Visits health service that is “ready” Receives health service Receives health service according to standards User adherence Health gain achieved Intervention eﬃcacy loss Limited availability / access / acceptability Lack of awareness Lack of service readiness Missed opportunity Inadequate service process Inadequate use 1. The Conceptual Framework This report use data from household surveys (PDHS 2017-18 and PSLM 2019) and information from public health facilities (health facility assessments and DHIS). Findings from recent MICS Surveys are also included. Literature review of recent journal articles and grey literature has been used to öll in the information gaps. The relevant government policies and programmes are presented in each chapter to highlight the eﬀorts to improve service delivery and monitoring of progress. Lessons derived from these endeavours are important to shape the future recommendations especially to bridge the hiatus between service contacts and content and quality of services received (WHO standards followed, user adherence and patient satisfaction). The chapters on family planning, maternal health, newborn health and child health highlight the fault lines in the health system service delivery and propose key actions to drive progress towards SDGs. The last chapter pulls out the common gaps and priority action areas in the coming decade. It emphasizes the need to invest in measurements to better monitor, understand and act on the gaps in eﬀective coverage. Pakistan has a multitude of regular household surveys but reliable real time monitoring needs more investment in DHIS, MPDSR and sentinel surveillance for maternal, newborn and child deaths. Making signiöcant progress towards universal health coverage with quality services for women's and children's health is possible with focused planning, regular over-sight and monitoring to make course corrections on the way. IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 10 CHAPTER 1. FAMILY PLANNING / REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH Table 2: Main points IMPROVING MATERNAL, NEWBORN AND CHILD HEALTH OUTCOMES IN A DECADE PAKISTAN REPORT 2020 11 This chapter brieøy reviews the main policies and targets