two or more special persons. Zakat, on the other hand, is a 2.5 percent zakat paid by Muslims on their unused annual savings, which is collected and allocated by the Ministry of Religious Affairs for each province. Health care is one of six programmes administered under the Zakat fund. These initiatives are important reforms to reduce catastrophic expenditures of the poorest families. However, these need to be expanded both in terms of breadth of services and coverage of people. There are also separate health service delivery programmes for armed forces and employees of autonomous institutions, private and commercial establishments. Employers of private and commercial institutions, which employ 10 or more persons, must provide insurance to employees under the Employees’ Social Security Institution (ESSI). The revenue for insurance is collected and distributed by the provincial ESSIs using a mandatory deduction of 7 percent, which is used to provide outpatient and inpatient services. ESSI provides medical care facilities and different cash benefits to secured workers and their dependents. ESSI has their own network of hospitals and clinics where free services are offered to the employees and their families. Package Priority Disease Treatment Package Secondary Care Treatment Package Only Indoor/ Day care procedures Initial Financial Limits: Rs: 300,000 / family / year Additional Financial Limit (If required): Rs: 300,000 / family / year Initial Financial Limits: Rs: 60,000 / family / year Additional Financial Limit (if required): Rs: 60,000 / family / year Additional coverage ▪ Transportation cost of Rs 1,000 per discharge 3 times in any given year ▪ Burial support expense of Rs 10,000 per death in empaneled hospitals ▪ One free post discharge follow-up Page | 41 Health is an interdisciplinary subject encapsulating a broad range of factors covered within and beyond the realm of the health sector. Population health outcomes are not confined to health sector rather are determined by the economic status, education, housing, nutrition, sanitation, population dynamics, human development and improvements at a governance level. Therefore, health is viewed in a health care systems context through a holistic lens. There is growing awareness amongst public health professionals that their universe is impacted by the political, social, economic and developmental milieu in which they operate. Factors such as illiteracy, unemployment, gender inequality, food insecurity, rapid urbanization, environmental degradation, natural disasters and the lack of access to safe water and sanitation all have the potential to aggravate the state