we aim that by 2030, more than 65 percent of the population will have access to quality essential health services. For financial protection, the proposed target is to reduce by half the number of people by 2030 who are impoverished due to out-of-pocket health care expenses. By 2030, no one should fall into poverty because of out-of-pocket health care expenses. We are now working with the provincial and federating areas’ health departments and a wide array of partners to track these targets on a regular basis. This tracking exercise is gradually being trickled down to the district level. However, we still need to work hard to ensure quality and timely availability of data for right decision making. The Government of Pakistan is committed to ensuring equity and quality through the delivery of essential preventive, promotive, curative, palliative and rehabilitative health services to every citizen. Dr Faisal Sultan SAPM/ Federal Health Minister Page | vi F O R E W O R D Development commitments through the Sustainable Development Goals, government’s policy interests, and health security concerns are the primary drivers of health service delivery in Pakistan. Now the health sector leadership in Pakistan is pursuing expanded efforts to address other health challenges, such as inequity and Universal Health Coverage. To assess the progress in public health development in Pakistan, it is critical to see how we are doing in achieving our goals and targets. Together, we must learn from the mistakes of the past, embrace the opportunities of the present and shape the future we all want. We must make UHC a reality. While UHC is ambitious, it is affordable. There is a need to increase domestic health expenditure, raising revenue equitably through progressive taxation and removing out-of-pocket payments. We must prioritise primary healthcare as the first step towards achieving UHC, making sure the most deprived and marginalised have access to essential health services. Donors and development partners must make sure their aid is transformative, in line with national and provincial UHC plans, priorities and domestic resource mobilisation. Monitoring progress towards UHC should focus on both provision of essential package of health services and ensuring social health protection. Measuring equity is also critical to understand who is being left behind—where and why. Each province and district in Pakistan is unique, and each province may focus on different areas, or develop their own ways of measuring progress towards UHC. But there