need to be developed in 21st century generation. Therefore, the policy makers are required to reform their policies and restructure the existing infrastructure to accommodate the challenges. Access to Secondary Education is highly uneven, particularly for girls. There is limited access to secondary schools because there are very few schools, and they are mostly located in the urban areas. According to PSLM 2018-19, out of school children are more than 30 percent with a high drop-out rate. Urbanization Pakistan’s population has been documented to be predominantly rural. However, for better economic opportunities, people from rural areas are migrating to urban areas leading to significant rise in the urbanization. Urbanisation has been very rapid in recent years, with the population of major cities jumping to some of the world’s largest cities with poor civil amenities. Disasters and Climate Change Pakistan is among the countries most vulnerable to Disasters including droughts, storms, epidemics, floods, pest attacks, river erosion etc. Human induced hazards that threaten the country relate to conflicts, terrorist activities, transport, fires and internal displacements of communities as a result of multiple factors. Climate change has already brought about a considerable increase in the frequency and intensity of extreme weather. Pakistan is also a severely water stressed with depleting water resources. Increasing urbanisation means larger urban populations inhabiting peri-urban, marginal and at-risk areas. Vulnerability to drought and disasters is growing in both urban and rural areas, placing ever more lives at risk. Government of Pakistan is committed to meeting the SDGs and institutional arrangements for most of national goals and targets are in place. Greater efforts are needed to institutionalize the SDGs within the health agenda, since all goals are important for health. Page | 46 THEORY OF CHANGE Page | 47 The National Health Vision (NHV) 2016–202533 and National Action Plan, NHSR&C (2019-23)34 strives to provide a responsive unified direction to overcome various health challenges, while ensuring adherence to UHC as the ultimate goal. The principle values include Good governance, Innovation and transformation, Equity and pro-poor approach, Responsiveness, Transparency and accountability, Integration and crosssectoral synergies. The Government’s National Health Vision is: “to improve the health of all Pakistanis, particularly women and children by providing universal access to affordable, quality, essential health services which are delivered through a resilient and responsive health system, capable of attaining the Sustainable Development Goals and fulfilling its other global health responsibilities” The NHV and its