stunting under 5 years is static for last two years indicating chronic under-nutrition problem in the country. Geographically disagregated data for stunting is important to understand the seriouness of stunting in specific areas as shown below and accordingly need for appropriate response. Safe Water and Adequate Sanitation Safe drinking-water, sanitation and hygiene are crucial to human health and well-being. Safe WASH is not only a prerequisite to health, but contributes to livelihoods, school attendance and dignity and helps to create resilient communities living in healthy environments. 62.5% 54.5% 41.5% 43.0% 45.0% 37.6% 40.2% 24.0% 12.5% 14.2% 14.8% 10.5% 7.1% 17.7% NNS 1986 PDHS 1991 NNS 2001 NNS 2011PDHS 2012-13 PDHS 2017-18NNS 2018 Stunting Wasting Page | 44 Drinking unsafe water impairs health through illnesses such as diarrhoea, and untreated excreta contaminates groundwaters and surface waters used for drinkingwater, irrigation, bathing and household purposes. In addition, chemical contamination of water continues to pose a health burden, whether natural in origin such as arsenic and fluoride, or anthropogenic such as nitrate. In actuality quality of water has worsened especially in urban areas and this has increased the risk of outbreaks of waterborne diseases. Increasing access to safe water must also be accompanied by efforts to ensure the quality of drinking water. Acute Watery Diarrhoea, Typhoid etc are endemic and claims hundreds of lives annually, particularly in densely populated areas. Water quality monitoring and house water treatment and safe storage are critical interventions that aim to reduce the risk of contamination of water supplies. Environmental factors pose an increasing threat to the availability of water. Lack of an effective solid waste management system means that the environment is absorbing untreated waste, with dire consequences. Status of Adequate Sanitation is even worse as the prevalence of open defecation in rural areas is still very high. Empowering communities to take action for their own sanitation needs, as well as supporting schools and health facilities to provide essential sanitary facilities, are priority WASH interventions. Women are especially vulnerable to harassment and violence in the absence of adequate WASH facilities, especially when travelling long distances to fetch water, using shared toilets, or practicing open defecation. Women and girls often wait until nightfall to defecate, which increases the risk of assault. The shame and indignity of defecating in the open also affects women’s self-esteem, as does a lack of water for washing clothes and personal hygiene. Pakistan’s vulnerability