to accelerate progress. Human Resource strategy including task shifting and competence based capacity building is needed. A plan for developing cadres of neonatologists, neonatal nurses and auxiliaries for neonatal intensive care units is urgently required. Accelerating the progress on Family Planning, Maternal, Newborn and Child Health in a decade demands a de novo approach, high political commitment backed by adequate önancing and the will to make diﬃcult decisions for addressing redundancies and gaining eﬃciency. The recent developments on RMNCAH+N investment case, UHC Basic Package and renewed government commitment to invest in Continuity of essential health services is indispensable to safeguard the modest gains made during the last decades. Preparedness is compulsory to withstand the eﬀect of natural disasters and health emergencies. The COVID-19 pandemic hammered down this necessity once again. Family planning and MNCH services were disrupted with the highest drop in out-patient consultations and deliveries during the period April-May 2020 with strict lock down enforcement. However, a quick rebound was noted in June and thereafter. All reproductive health programming needs to be risk-informed and should be attentive to build resilience of health system in face of any future health crises. Under-öve mortality has dropped steadily during the last two decades at an annual rate of decline just under 3% to 67 per 1,000 live births by 2019. Sixty percent of all under-öve deaths are due to neonatal causes. Hence a major improvement in neonatal survival will be essential for reaching under-öve mortality rate 2030 target. Pneumonia and diarrhea are the leading causes of post neonatal and early child mortality. Access and utilization of services continued to improve for ARI and childhood diarrhoea. 70-80% of sick under-öves were taken to a health facility, and 53% of those with diarrhoea received ORS øuids in 2018/19. Coverage of fully immunized children increased to 66% in 2017/18 and further increases in pentavalent third dose and measles vaccination were observed in the PSLM 2018/19. Better targeting is necessary: urban-rural and provincial inequalities persist and the poorest wealth quintile has much lower coverage. Quality of pediatric care is a challenge whereby nutritional assessment, age-appropriate vaccination, ORS plus zinc and continued feeding during diarrhea and provision of antibiotic for managing ARI could be improved by strengthening knowledge and counseling skills of service providers. All interventions for under-öves should pay special attention to the children from the poorest households which still have lower coverage and higher mortality.