highest allocation of current expenditures for health, and spent 78 percent of its total budget on hospital services; while Balochistan had the lowest allocation for current health expenditures, and spent only 31 percent on hospital services. Salaries and administrative costs are lowest for Punjab (14 percent) and are the highest for Balochistan (63 percent). Public health services have been given the least priority in budget and allocation ranges from 3 percent in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to 8 percent in Punjab. A large portion of the public spending on health has been consumed in salaries and administrative costs varying across provinces. However, Punjab has the most efficient distribution of resources, with more focus on hospital and public health services. According to the National Health Accounts 20017-18, the annual per capita THE (Recurrent and Development) is Rs 5,749.9 (US$ 52.3), and is 3.2 percent of the GDP. OOP per capita for Pakistan as per NHA 2017-18 is (27.2 US$) Rs. 2984, which translates to OOP as percent of THE of 51.7 percent. For 2018, the total spending by Pakistan’s government as a share of the economy as measured by GDP (GGE as percent of GDP) stands at 21.6 percent, and of the general government expenditures, the share of Page | 53 government expenditures devoted to health (GGHE-D as percent of GGE), is 5.26 percent. While Pakistan’s economy has grown in the recent years, the country continues to suffer from several macroeconomic imbalances, such as inflation. Although the figures indicate increase in health expenditures over the years, but taking inflation into account, the general government expenditures devoted for health sector have remained stagnant over the last few years. Overall public health expenditure looks to be static in real term over last few years, while considering inflation rate. However, more recently the government has so far spent more than $1.6 billion on COVID-19 response especially on vaccine and testing. Considering this expenditure, a rapid boost in the public health expenditure is expected now. UHC is based on the principle that all individuals and communities have equitable access to their needed health care, in good quality, without suffering financial hardship. In order to achieve UHC, Pakistan has adapted a set of costed priority interventions referred to as UHCBP based on the DCP-3. To achieve UHC, increase access to quality health care services and protect against catastrophic health expenditure, an amount of Rs. 1.28 trillion is required