is also worth mentioning the active role of Dr Atiya Aabroo, Dr Samra Mazhar and Dr Sabeen Afzal from the Ministry and Provincial/ Area UHC focal points and UHC coordinators from Health Departments. I would like to convey my special thanks to the development partners and more specifically UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office, US Agency for International Development, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Disease Control Priorities-3 secretariat, UNICEF, UNFPA, Global Alliance for Vaccine & Immunizations, Global Fund to fight against AIDS, TB & Malaria, World Bank and others. My special gratitude is due to Dr Mahipala Palitha, Head of WHO Country Office in Pakistan and his team, as this report could not have materialized without their inputs. In the end, I pray for the achievement of health-related sustainable development goals and more specifically universal health coverage targets in Pakistan. Dr. Rana Muhammad Safdar Director General Health Page | viii NATIONAL HEALTH VISION ‘To improve the health of all Pakistanis, particularly women and children by providing universal access to affordable, quality essential health services which are delivered through a resilient and responsive health system, capable of attaining the Sustainable Development Goals and fulfilling its other global health responsibilities’ FRAMEWORK Page | ix E X E C U T I V E S U M M A R Y The 2021 UHC Monitoring Report relates directly to one of the defining characteristics of the SDGs: promoting accountability by encouraging the health sector and academic institutions to commit to reporting on UHC progress on a regular basis. Most of the data provided in the following pages have been derived from national and provincial surveys and administrative data of the regulatory bodies and programmes. The report also provides district level Universal Health Coverage Service Coverage Index, albeit with a challenge of significant data gaps and quality issues. National and provincial/ federating area ownership is key to the success of achieving the SDGs. The process of monitoring through this report takes account of national and potentially subnational priorities. This report intends to contribute to regional and global SDG monitoring frameworks. It is envisaged that by developing metrics and reporting, this report will encourage provinces/ federating areas and districts to refine and tailor them to their local circumstances. As the data show in this report, the process is fraught with challenges, not just in reaching the targets themselves, but also in terms of measuring progress