1.2 percent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). In an attempt to reform the health sector, the federal and provincial governments introduced social health protection programmes in their constituencies, such as the Sehat Sahulat Programme (SSP), and the Social Health Protection Initiative (SHPI). The target beneficiary of these programmes is the poorest population. Sehat Sahulat Programme uses the benchmark of defining poverty as families/ households having daily income of less than $2.00, while Gilgit Baltistan SHPI uses the benchmark of $1.00 per day. Sehat Sahulat Programme is a public sector funded social health protection initiative of Federal and participating provincial and federating area governments working to provide financial health protection to targeted families against catastrophic (extra-ordinary) health care expenditure. Sehat Sahulat Programme is being implemented in a phased manner, starting from below poverty families and eventually targeting universal families and providing coverage eventually to all people across Pakistan. In total, these social protection programs have expanded to 65 districts across the country and have enrolled over 81 million individuals. The program is providing services to more than 18 million families. The program will be expanded to approximately 39 million families during fiscal year of 20212022. So far, the program has not been implemented for the families of Balochistan and Sindh (other than District Tharparkar). Sehat Sahulat Programme only provides services to families which requires indoor health care services. The services include, but are not limited to, cardiac treatments (stents, open heart, valvular replacement etc), oncological (cancer) management, burn management, organ failure management (dialysis etc), complication of diabetes mellitus, accident / trauma management, neurosurgical procedures, abdominal surgeries, fracture management and other medical & surgical interventions. Province/ Federating Area Current Status Families Covered Islamabad Below poverty 65,157 Azad Jammu & Kashmir Universal 763,807 Gilgit-Baltistan Below poverty 72,678 Punjab Below poverty and Universal in 7 districts 8,592,745 Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Universal 7,469,666 Tribal districts Universal 1,213,159 Balochistan Nil Nil Tharparker (Sindh) Universal 314,666 Sindh Nil Nil TOTAL 18 million Page | 40 The programme so far does not offer facility for transplant (kidney or liver) or implants (cochlear and other) and other general exclusions list for health insurance such as self-inflicted injuries, cosmetic surgeries, out-patient services, take home medicines, sports injuries etc. For the identifying families living below poverty line, the Sehat Sahulat Programme is using National SocioEconomic Registry (NSER) of Benazir Income Support Programme. The families are those having threshold of PMT 32.5