circumstances surrounding maternal health.7 The first delay 1) is delay in decision to seek care, 2) is the delay in reaching a healthcare facility, and 3) is the delay in receiving timely and appropriate care at the health care facility. First delay is shaped by factors affecting decisionmaking, including sociocultural influences, financial constraints, and opportunity costs. On the other hand, second delay arise from issues such as the distance to the nearest healthcare facility, travel time, transportation availability and cost, and road conditions. Reaching a health facility does not necessarily mean the end of the journey as the nearest facility may not be equipped to treat the condition or even administer essential first aid so patients are referred to another facility that is better equipped. The third delay relates to inadequacies within the health care system itself. This could be lack of properly trained personal, transfusion facility, equipment and other infrastructural inadequacies. Late or wrong diagnosis and incorrect action by the staff are other factors that contribute to delays in the timely provision of needed care. The three delays model helps to determine where improvements can be made to save the lives of women and babies.8 The studies in different parts of Pakistan have reported different MMR and the causative factors for maternal death.9,10 Reliable and timely data identifying the causes and factors responsible for the deaths is crucial for policy makers to plan effective interventions in right direction. Maternal mortality data is collected from various sources including household surveys, mortality studies, verbal autopsies, confidential enquiries and national surveys. Facility based data offers a contextualized resource for clinical and organizational quality improvement and inform local policy makers to target deficiencies in health systems. Hence, a longer duration, maternal mortality review starting from 2011 to 2022 was planned. This study aimed to study factors associated with maternal deaths, causes of maternal death and evaluate site specific trends in the MMR over twelve-year time. To our knowledge, this study provides the latest data on MMR from a government tertiary care hospital that will aid in evaluating healthcare system efficiency and policy-making related to maternal mortality. METHODS This study was conducted in Obstetrics department, Services Hospital, Lahore which is a public sector tertiary care hospital. This study had a review of all maternal deaths occurring in the from 1st Jan 2011 to Dec 2022. Ethical Approval: It was obtained from Institutional Review Board