Pak J Med Sci January February 2023 Vol. 39 No. 1 www.pjms.org.pk 293 Special Communication Ferritin screening and Iron treatment for maternal anemia and fetal growth restriction prevention A multicenter randomized controlled trial (FAIR Study) Tayyiba Wasim1, Natasha Bushra2, Arif Tajammul3, Shamsa Humayun4, Saba Rasool5, Fatima Shahbaz6, Anam Riaz7, Farah Siddique8, Khadija Irfan Khawaja9, Aziz Fatima10, Zubia Zafar11, Khalid Saeed Khan12 ABSTRACT Background: Non-anemic iron deficiency precedes iron deficiency anaemia and has an estimated prevalence of 1-2 billion worldwide. Few studies have comprehensively researched the idea of treating non-anemic iron deficiency (NAID) with iron to improve the outcome of the mother and the offspring. Methods and Analysis: FAIR will be a multicenter randomized controlled trial that will be conducted in multiple clinical academic obstetrics units in Lahore (including Services Institute of Medical Sciences, Lahore, Allama Iqbal Medical College, Lahore and Fatima Jinnah Medical University). Pregnant women at gestational age <20 weeks with hemoglobin 11-13 g/L and ferritin below the threshold (<30 ng/ml) will be invited to take part in the study. Randomization will be done by computer based generated random numbers. One group (usual care or oral group) will be offered routine care prophylactic dose of oral iron (30-45 mg/day) and the other group (intervention arm or IV group) will be offered therapeutic dose of IV iron (dose calculated by Ganzoni formula) in addition to usual care. All patients will be followed up till delivery. Primary maternal outcome will be hemoglobin at 36 weeks’ gestation. Secondary outcomes are fetal birthweight or small for gestational age, preterm birth, preeclampsia, multidimensional fatigue inventory, breast feeding initiation, blood transfusion, and fetal cord ferritin and hemoglobin. Discussion: The study will generate evidence as to whether screening serum ferritin in non-anemic pregnant women and replenishing their iron stores will likely reduce the rate of predelivery anemia in pregnant women, improve birthweight and preventing perinatal complications. Roles and responsibilities: Tayyiba Wasim is principal Investigator and other members of data management team are Natasha Bushra, Shamsa Humayoun, Khalid Saeed Khan, Fatima Shehbaz, Saba Rasool, Anam Riaz and Sonia Irshad. Principal investigator will assume the full responsibility of Fair trial including training of research assistants, administration of informed consent and protecting participants confidentiality. Data management team will help in the management, development and execution of trial. Khadija Irfan Khawaja is the operational lead for fair trial´s technology team comprising of Aziz Fatima and Zubia Zafar, responsible for gathering