Ashraf B. Frequency of Anemia and Associated Risk Factors Among Pregnant Women; A Study From The Remote Outskirts of Quetta, Balochistan. J Soc Obstet Gynaecol Pak. 2023; 13(2):82-86. Introduction Anemia in pregnant women is a recognized public health issue, affecting at least 20% of the women worldwide. The World Health Organization (WHO) has defined the cut off value for pregnancy anemia as the hemoglobin (Hb) concentration of <11 g/dL. The Centre for Disease Control (CDC) has defined the cut off values trimester wise as well as for the postnatal period. i.e., <11g/dL in first and third trimester, <10.5 g/dL in second trimester and <10 g/dL in postnatal period. 1-3 Anemia in pregnancy carries significant repercussions both for the mother as well as the fetus. This can cause a variety of maternal and perinatal adverse outcomes. For instance, preterm labor, low birth weight and intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) and placental abruption. It is also a significant risk factor for maternal morbidity and mortality. With severe anemia the mother is likely to have issues such as palpitations, dyspnea, cardiac decompensation and cardiac failure. In Asia, anemia constitutes the second leading cause of maternal death, contributing to significant percentage of deaths due to postpartum hemorrhage.1, 4,5 Internationally, there is growing awareness about the significant fetomaternal consequences of anemia in pregnancy. However, there is dearth of quality research into this issue in our remote areas. The current study was therefore planned to determine the frequency and underlying risk factors of anemia among pregnant women in a rural health centre in Balochistan. The study will thus furnish valuable evidence in this regard and help to provide underpinning for future remedial Authorship Contribution: 1Substantial contributions to the conception or design of the work, acquisition, analysis, 4Final approval of the version to be published. Funding Source: none Conflict of Interest: none Received: Dec 23 2022 Accepted: May 19, 2023 Original Article Bushra Ashraf 83 J Soc Obstet Gynaecol Pak. 2023; Vol 13. No.2 measures to better address this health issue in larger perspective. Methodology This descriptive cross sectional study was conducted at the Mufti Mehmood Memorial Hospital, Quetta, Balochistan from July 2018 to July 2019. All pregnant women who attended the antenatal clinic during the study period were prospectively included. Exclusion criteria included patients who didn’t consent to participate and those with history of inherent bleeding disorders (i.e., thalassemia, sickle cell disease), and kidney, liver or other