[1]. Furthermore, iron deficiency can be categorized into three categories; • Mild Deficiency consists of depleted stores with normal production of Hb and irondependent protein. • Marginal deficiency consists of depleted iron stores and decreased iron-dependent protein production but normal Hb concentrations. • Iron deficiency anemia consists of decreased concentration of circulating RBCs which results in decreased concentration of Hb within blood cells resulting in compromised transport of oxygen to tissues, iron stores are further depleted and the concentrations of iron-dependent oxidative enzymes are reduced [2]. Anemia has been a major public health concern over the past few years. According to N Milman, “The most common nutrition deficiency in both developing as well as in developed countries is iron deficiency” [1]. Globally, similar to other diseases, poor countries and underprivileged group suffer the most. Reproductive System & Sexual Disorders: Current Research Mawani et al., Reprod Syst Sex Disord 2016, 5:3 DOI: 10.4172/2161-038X.1000187 Review Article Open Access Reprod Syst Sex Disord, an open access journal ISSN:2161-038X Volume 5 • Issue 3 • 1000187 In poorest countries, pregnant women and children are the most anemic population group and have the least access to interventions and services. According to a report by World Bank on anemia, “In women, anemia prevalence decreases with income in every region/ country”. Prevalence in the poorest as compared to richest is twice high in many countries [3]. A study was carried out in Abbottabad and the results showed that the most common type of anemia is an iron deficiency anemia that affects 68% people and is more common in females [4]. Although iron deficiency is common among women of developing as well as industrialized countries, statistics show that it is more common in developing countries [5]. Multiple causes and consequences of anemia in developing countries have been reported in the literature and these are not synthesized at one place. Thus the purpose of this literature review was to review and synthesize the findings from literature about the burden, causes, outcomes and important interventions of anemia for developing countries. Methods Search strategies and data sources An extensive literature review was carried out by retrieving articles from various databases like Pub med, Google scholar, Science direct, World Bank and WHO databases. In addition to this; different reports were also being studied including World Health Organization and World Bank reports and Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 2013, Demographic health survey (DHS)