nor for media coverage. For dissemination, reports should be tailored to the audience. The main objective is to get the relevant information to the stakeholders who can implement the findings. The reports should focus on ways to improve the system rather than highlighting particular errors, and contents should be carefully reviewed prior to publication to avoid breaches in confidentiality and misuse of information. The suggested standard sections for an annual MPDSR report are as follows: 1. Background of geographical area covered by review 2. Characteristics of women of reproductive age in the area 3. Characteristics of births in the area (number, live or stillborn), birth weight, gestational age 4. Maternal and perinatal deaths by area of residence, mother’s age, place of death, ethnicity. 5. Proportion of maternal and perinatal deaths by medical cause of death 6. Case fatality rate (for facility deaths) 7. Contributing factors (quality of care and nonmedical) and their frequencies 8. Assessment of avoidability 9. Recommendations for preventing future deaths 10. Review of recommendations from previous years/reports and lessons learned (including implementation challenges) 27. Although reports are called “annual” the frequency of their publication will depend on the number of deaths/the number of cases reviewed. 26 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination MONITORING AND EVALUATION M & E is necessary to ensure that the system is functioning adequately, improving with time, and ultimately achieving the overall objective of reducing maternal and perinatal mortality. M & E entails deciding how to monitor progress, effectiveness, and impact based on established indicators and timelines (immediate, short, medium, and long term). The framework for M&E includes standard indicators based on MPDSR principles: maternal and perinatal death as a notifiable event; timeliness and effectiveness of review processes undertaken at facility, community, district, provincial and national level; data quality; and percentage of recommended responses undertaken. Because the main purpose of MPDSR is to take actions to eliminate preventable maternal and perinatal deaths, the system is failing if this is not happening. See appendix 8 for a sample monitoring and evaluation tool with sample targets. 27 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) MONITORING AND EVALUATION In order to achieve the goals and objectives of MPDSR a plan is needed for implementation. Note: Implementation of MPDSR will vary among provinces depending on the types of maternal mortality notification and review guidelines, processes, and systems already