and ‘anaemia’ but cannot draw conclusions of causality or effect. (e) There is limited evidence of the impact of income-generation activities on women’s anthropometric and biochemical nutrition outcomes. Increased income has been associated with reductions in mothers being anaemic or underweight, but these reductions are modest. (f) Few studies have evaluated the impact of education as an intervention on women’s nutrition outcomes. Instead, survey data has been used and reported on to highlight the associations between education and nutrition. Educational interventions with intended nutrition outcomes largely target school-age children and adolescent girls, rather than women of reproductive age. (g) Social protection interventions include in-kind support (food baskets and fortified foods) and cash transfers, both conditional unconditional. 1.5 Maternal nutrition: Global recommendations Global guidance recommends promoting a varied and healthy diet to meet women’s nutritional needs.10 Promoting diverse diets is one of several approaches to improve micronutrient nutrition for women. Other recommended strategies include fortification, biofortification and/or supplementation. In addition to micronutrient adequacy, high quality diets comprise a balanced intake of proteins, carbohydrates and fats, as well as moderation in terms of the consumption of foods that are low in nutrient density and which are associated with an increased risk of chronic diseases.11 Box 1. Global commitments associated with maternal nutrition Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and targets: SDG 2 to end hunger and all forms of malnutrition and SDG 3 to reduce premature mortality from non-communicable diseases (NCDs) by one-third by 2030 World Health Assembly targets: To reduce anaemia in women of reproductive age and reduce low birth weight by 2025 Guidance on women’s nutrition has predominately focused on services provided through the health system during pregnancy, and increasingly in the preconception period. Gaps remain in the availability of global guidance on diets and practices for women in the postpartum period. 10 This is based on the Composition of a healthy diet for adults (WHO, 2020) which includes the following principles: (1) consuming fruits, vegetables, legumes, nuts and whole grains (unprocessed maize, millet, oats, wheat and brown rice); (2) consuming at least 5 portions of fruits and vegetables per day (~400 g); (3) receiving less than 10 per cent of one’s total energy from free sugars (~50 g); (4) receiving less than 30 per cent of total energy from fat, with a preference for unsaturated fats (saturated fats should account for less than 10 per cent, polyunsaturated fats should account for