1). The steps of that process will be similar to the process for community based deaths which is covered in section 3). 1.12. Identification, Notification, Registration and Data Collection All staff in the facility should be alerted to report the death of any woman of reproductive age (WRA) that occurs in any department within 24 hours; in addition the process will include concurrent and eventually all perinatal deaths. An MPDSR register is set up in the facility into which the death is recorded by the MPDSR coordinator(s).25 The MPDSR coordinator will gather information to determine if a probable maternal death occurred (e.g. any evidence that she could have been pregnant or within 42 days of the end of a pregnancy and the death is not due to incidental or accidental causes). The form MDF1Notification Form (appendix 1) is filled. If it is a probable maternal death it will be notified to the district MPDSR committee for triangulation. Next, the MPDSR coordinator collects the data about the deceased (ideally within 48 hours). Data from multiple sources, including patient records should be collected: for example, data may be extracted from the Ob/Gyn admission and discharge register, supplemented with information from the labour and delivery ward register, and theatre or minor surgery record 25. If a register is already in use for deaths and discharges, it can serve this purpose. 19 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) books. Case notes, patient records, postoperative notes, and laboratory results, when available, also can be valuable sources of information. This data is needed for the review. The form MDF2Facility Maternal Death Data (appendix 2) is filled in as completely as possible to be used by the review committee. This form also contains questions about the status of the baby and therefore can be used by the committee to review any concurrent perinatal deaths. Data should be presented to the review committee in a qualitative fashion that describes the course of the mother’s pregnancy and includes descriptions of where and how care was provided.26 1.13. Review by the Committee The death review is the essential component of MPDSR. It is a qualitative, in-depth investigation of the causes, and circumstances surrounding the maternal and/or perinatal deaths. It is an important strategy to improve the quality of obstetric care and reduce maternal and perinatal mortality. Analysis of these deaths can identify the delays that