as causative agent in maternal mortality like low literacy, poor economy and low socioeconomic status etc2. Maternal mortality gives us a true picture of overall health status of a country3. According to WHO, Pakistan has the highest mortality rate in Asia that is 340/100,000. In this advance era of science and technology, it is very alarming that women in prenatal and postnatal period are dying due to preventable reasons. Highest mortality is a sign of low treatment opportunities available for women health4. A maternal death is the death of women as a result of pregnancy, from the first stage of gestation up to 42 days after the completion of pregnancy or its management. Maternal death is categorized as direct obstetric death due obstetric problem and indirect obstetric death which may be due to previously standing reason provoked by the physiological effects of gestation5. Both types are considered for the measurement of maternal mortality rates (MMR). In developing countries, 70 % of maternal death is linked with direct causes like hemorrhage, eclampsia, obstructed labor, sepsis or unsafe abortion6. Pregnancy with infectious diseases like HIV, tuberculosis or malaria may also lead to end of life of a mother in countries having high prevalence of infectious diseases7. A research report presented that 830 women die ------------------------------------------------------------------------------Received on 23-10-2020 Accepted on 09-01-2021 every day due to pregnancy and childbirth preventable complications. Around 99% of these deaths occur in developing countries including Pakistan8. Pakistan is still unable to achieve the millennium developmental goal of maternal health. There is a long but preventable list of contributing factors of maternal death in Pakistan like Early marriages, late age pregnancies, lack of trained midwives and lack of asses to the medical aid, physical labor throughout the gestation, inadequate family planning and hemorrhage during or after delivery, infections during and after birth of the baby, eclampsia and unsafe abortion9. Child bearing women in the age of 15 to 47 years is at the risk of death. Hemorrhage during and after delivery also leads mother life to the death pool. Insufficient number of trained midwives, as 60 to 65% population lives in the rural areas10. Most of the births take place in home setting without proper trained midwives by the traditional birth attendant. Unfortunately, they do not take precautionary measures to control the source of infection11. Insufficient medical aid or unavailability of maternity homes in the rural areas is also