for ready reference. Nevertheless the information collated highlights the continuing high ratios of maternal mortality. This is of deep concern and requires discussion on future directions, policy and programmatic, to be taken by all concerned. Most of the currently available data on maternal mortality are truly reflective of the situation in the community, it does give information about the causes as well as trends over the years. However hospital studies need to conform to a standard uniform pattern of reporting. Studies in the community are few and on small scales. More data, which are nationally representative, are necessary. It is of vital importance that all births and deaths throughout the country are registered. Three major public teaching hospitals from which data are available, the maternal deaths are due to direct causes, an indication of the poor maternal health status and inadequate health care. Hemorrhage is the overall leading cause followed by eclampsia and sepsis, though a few hospitals report sepsis and one reports eclampsia as the most common cause. In the 6 to 13% of deaths due to abortion, the causes are hemorrhage, sepsis and visceral injury3. This last complication is almost definitely a result of unsafe abortion even though the women do not admit having resorted to it. Among the indirect causes of death, severe anemia per se was high during the 1960s i.e. 18.1% at JPMC, Karachi. Subsequent figures from the JPMC show it to be much lower at 3.1% and 4.8%. Recently data from Civil Hospital, Karachi shows anemia to be responsible for a greater Table-IV: Maternal Mortality cause in Pakistan. Causes of Maternal Mortality Number of Cases Percentage Hemorraghe 52 52 Antepartum haemorrhage (APH) 24 Post-partum hemorrhage (PPH) 20 APH+PPH 06 Uterine Rupture 02 Hypertension (HTN) 32 HELLP 06 32 Eclampsia 08 Sever Pre-Eclampsia 18 HTN and Hemorrhage 10 10 Ruptured Ectopic Pregnency 04 04 Sepsis 02 2 Puerperal Sepsis 01 Septic Inducted Aborion 01 JPMA AUG 1985 Zahida Ahmed. Maternal Morbidity And Mortality Pak Armed Forces Med J 2017; 67 (4): 635-40 639 number of deaths (11.8%) again. Is this a result of increasing malnutrition, or is it just a sporadic finding? There are anecdotal accounts that anemia is on the increase. Of other medical disorders, hepatitis is also a significant cause accounting for between 2.5 to 9.7% of the deaths. Data on the type of hepatitis are not available, though it is known that