ORIGINAL ARTICLE P J M H S Vol. 15, NO. 3, MARCH 2021 613 Determinants of Maternal Mortality in Pakistan NADIA ASHRAF1, SADIA SARWAR2, NAGINA BIBI3 1Senior Registrar (SWMO BPS-18) Department of Gynae/Obs, Jinnah Hospital Lahore, Pakistan 2Assistant Professor, Department of Gynae/Obs, Continental Medical College Lahore, Pakistan 3Assistant Professor Department of Gynae/Obs, Continental Medical College Lahore, Pakistan Correspondence to: Dr. Nadia Ashraf, Email: nadiaashraf77@hotmail.com, Cell: 0344-4304884 ABSTRACT Background: Health provide basis for a productive and meaningful life. Multiple factors are involved as causative agent in maternal mortality like low literacy, poor economy and low socioeconomic status etc. Maternal mortality gives us a true picture of overall health status of a country. Objective: The objective of this study is to identify the determinants of maternal mortality in Pakistan. Methodology: A cross sectional study was conducted in obstetrics and gynecology unit of a tertiary health care sector of Pakistan. Previous data pertaining to maternal mortality during September 2012 to 2018 was gathered. Confidentiality was maintained and ethical considerations were followed. Both direct and indirect causes leading to maternal mortality were identified. SPSS version 23 was used to analyze the data. Results: Pakistan has the highest maternal mortality rate in Asia there are many issues and problems faced by Pakistani maternal mortality. Some most important contributing factors are early marriages, late age pregnancies, lack of trained midwives and lack of asses to hospital. Conclusion: Maternal mortality has become the serious public health issue in Pakistan and it contributes to low life expectancy among women. It is alarming that Pakistan has the highest maternal mortality rate. Community base interventions can contribute a lot by educating about various factors for controlling the maternal mortality. Key Words: Determinants, Maternal Mortality, Pakistan. INTRODUCTION The health is essential for every individual however for a mother it is crucial. A healthy mother gave birth to healthy child. Health and being healthy is not only a state it is a way of good life. Health provide basis for a productive and meaningful life1. Pakistan is a developing country ranking at 6th number with highest population rate. Multiple factors are involved as causative agent in maternal mortality like low literacy, poor economy and low socioeconomic status etc2. Maternal mortality gives us a true picture of overall health status of a country3. According to WHO, Pakistan has the highest mortality rate in Asia that is 340/100,000. In this advance era of science