initiative and to the new Global Strategy for Women’s, Children’s and Adolescents’ Health, and is also part of the Ending Preventable Maternal Mortality (EPMM) and Every Newborn Action Plan (ENAP) initiatives. 1.2. Current Pakistan Situation Pakistan contributes substantially to regional and global maternal and perinatal mortality figures, but the exact magnitude of maternal death is not precisely known. Notably, Pakistan started out in 1990 with the second lowest MMR in the South Asia region after Sri Lanka. However, due to its comparatively slow rate of progress it now has a higher MMR than most countries in the region. The mortality ratio estimate ranges from 93 to 320 per 100,000 live births, and the WHO estimates that the MMR is underestimated by 30% globally and by up to 70% in countries with lacking civil registration systems. According to the PDHS 2012-2013, the neonatal mortality rate in Pakistan remains unchanged for the last 20 years, at 55 deaths per 1,000 live births, whereas infant mortality has decreased by 19% and underfive mortality has decreased by 24% over the same period. Almost two thirds of under-five deaths occur in the early neonatal period i.e. in the first 7 days of life. A major proportion of these deaths could be prevented by timely intervention and good quality care during pregnancy and at the time of delivery. With the passage of the 18th amendment in 2010, responsibility for health was devolved to the provinces. Therefore, each province will take a lead role in implementing MPDSR. Notably, a District Health Information System/ HMIS is established in all provinces, however it does not currently track maternal or perinatal deaths. Yet this mortality data is a critical component of any public health information infrastructure. Ultimately, all deaths, including maternal and perinatal deaths, should be reported to a civil registration/vital statistics system (CR/VS). 1.3. The State of MPDSR in Pakistan Although the notification of maternal deaths and the establishment of maternal death reviews have been accepted by the Government of Pakistan as a matter of policy in 2007; however, a situation analysis of the status of the components of MPDSR in Pakistan revealed that apart from sporadic, ad hoc projects in the provinces little has been done. In 2015 with support from UNFPA, Punjab started the process of MPDSR at the community level, in a 9 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) few districts,