disorders like thalassemia and sickle cell disease are also associated with and are aggravated by the presence of anemia [1]. Additionally, bone marrow diseases that cause suppression of red cells synthesis, chronic renal failure, rheumatoid arthritis and tuberculosis are also some of the causes that lead to anemia [4]. During the whole time period of pregnancy, there is an increased need of about 700-850 mg of body iron while lactation results in additional loss of iron via breast milk. But, lactation amenorrhea compensates for this loss [6]. The problem increases with repeated pregnancies as body iron stores get depleted. Among preschool children, the magnitude of anemia is reported to be associated with birth order thereby indicating a gradual depletion of the iron stores of mothers after repeated pregnancies [6]. Decreased absorption may be due to effects of some medications that hinder the absorption of iron from the diet. Another possibility is a lesser intake of dietary sources of iron. The average daily dietary iron intake in developed countries is between 10 and 15 mg. under normal conditions, only between 5% and 10% of this quantity is absorbed, that is, 1–3 mg/day [9]. This relates to improving iron intake. Prevalence of anemia is observed to be high in large families and those in which mothers have lower literacy levels. Cultural beliefs also have a large impact on it. Some cultural groups avoid ironrich sources of diet and that makes a large proportion of world’s population [6]. Obesity can be another factor of iron deficiency. Studies done in transitional countries have indicated that obesity increases the risk of iron deficiency due to adiposity-related decreased dietary absorption. Cross-sectional studies in industrialized countries have shown that obese individuals are at increased risk of iron deficiency [14]. In developing countries most common cause of anemia is malnutrition and poor dietary intake [3,9]. Most women from developing and developed countries consume a diet lacking in haemiron and consume a diet adequate in non-haem iron, that has a low absorption [1]. Outcomes of anemia The reason why Iron deficiency is a matter of concern is that it causes fatigue, decreased motor abilities, impaired memory and can also cause delays in mental development [15,16]. In addition to this, anemia in pregnancy can increase the risk of having a preterm delivery and preterm babies have other health concerns ranging from low birth weight and neural tube defects to death.