was concluded that “sprinkles” were very effective in treating iron deficiency [19]. Its applicability in Pakistani population can be suggested since it has already been tried in a developing country. In regions of higher prevalence of anemia, iron supplementations should be used frequently to cover highrisk groups [1]. Some studies suggest that iron and folic acid supplementation should be prescribed when a woman decides for pregnancy to make sure that adequate iron reserves are present during pregnancy and postpartum period. This is especially true in the areas of high prevalence of iron deficiency e.g. Southeast Asia and Africa. It is also suggested that in areas of high prevalence doses of iron supplementation should be higher than in general population [1]. There are studies from Indian subcontinent that demonstrate that intravenous iron therapy can be very efficient in the correction of iron deficiency anemia in late pregnancy. It is convenient for the patient and reduces overall health care cost [1]. In contrast to the situation in western countries, there is a lack of facilities and access to health care in developing countries. There are no facilities for assessment of ferritin levels and there is a need to do that since the prevalence of anemia is quite high. It should be made available on field levels [1]. Vitamin B-12 is also one of the essential vitamins. Its sources are meat and poultry so the issue of affordability arises in developing countries [1]. The Government should focus on subsidizing rates for these sources in order to decrease the additional burden on health care resources as well as decrease morbidity and mortality. Combine tablets that contain iron and micronutrient together will be more convenient Citation: Mawani M, Ali SA, Bano G, Ali SA (2016) Iron Deficiency Anemia among Women of Reproductive Age, an Important Public Health Problem: Situation Analysis. Reprod Syst Sex Disord 5: 187. doi:10.4172/2161-038X.1000187 Page 4 of 6 Reprod Syst Sex Disord, an open access journal ISSN:2161-038X Volume 5 • Issue 3 • 1000187 since it does not require ingesting separate pills for each component [1]. Frequent follow-ups and reminders would be beneficial. The door to door approach should be implemented, keeping in mind the cultural implications and lack of access to medical facilities for women. Counseling should involve all family members, considering men as well that would help them to accept the idea. Pakistan has a male dominating society; hence male