not pregnant or lactating. 3.3 Federal strategic plan The federal chapter of this Maternal Nutrition Strategy has a dual role: overarching coordination, harmonization and standardization across Pakistan, and the implementation of programme interventions in federally administered regions. The regions of Azad Jammu and Kashmir and GilgitBaltistan have each developed an implementation plan to implement the Maternal Nutrition Strategy within their specific contexts. These regional activities are summarized below. Strategic area 1. Enabling environment Sub-strategy 1.1. Policy and coordination The regions of Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan will be under the federal Maternal, Infant, Young Child and Adolescent Nutrition Technical Advisory Group chapter and will develop a plan to provided strategic and technical direction for the implementation of the Maternal Nutrition Strategy. The regions will revitalize and strengthen the existing multi-sectoral coordination platform – encompassing steering committees at the regional and district levels – in order to include maternal nutrition interventions that will be implemented and monitored by all sectors. 50 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN The regions will determine priority legislation that affects maternal nutrition outcomes. They will enforce and monitor legislation on maternity protection laws and benefits, social protection schemes and benefits targeting vulnerable women and their families, and food fortification legislation and regulations for staples and salt. They will also observe legislation on trans fatty acid limits and its enforcement through sub-national food regulatory boards, as well as the enforcement and monitoring of the ban on breastmilk substitutes. Once key maternal nutrition interventions are standardized and integrated, the federal Maternal, Infant, Young Child and Adolescent Nutrition Technical Advisory Group will develop technical guidelines and programme protocols for maternal nutrition service delivery. Sub-strategy 1.2. Financing and resource allocations Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan will review maternal nutrition commodities and equipment, as well as revising the essential drug list to include such commodities – most prominently iron and folic acid, multiple micronutrient supplements and calcium. They will calculate and allocate budgets for updated social and behaviour change approaches, the development of information, education and communication materials, and related training for health care providers and frontline workers. At the federal level, activities will be undertaken to sensitize decision makers, including parliamentarians and relevant authorities, for the timely allocation of funds and efforts to address procedural delays in disbursement. Regional stakeholders will improve and accelerate budget development for maternal nutrition activities within sectoral annual work plans. Sub-strategy 1.3. Advocacy, awareness,