and counsellors, where needed. All of these workers will be provided with job aids, checklists and counselling materials to effectively deliver maternal nutrition-related services and counselling. These workers will also be provided with supportive supervision to boost motivation and ensure optimal performance monitoring. To strengthen the curriculum and training for maternal nutrition, the regions have committed to updating pre-service and in-service training manuals. They are also committed to conducting ‘train the trainer’ sessions for master trainers to enable trickle-down training, as well as implementing refresher trainings during regular meetings for frontline workers in order to address time constraints. 53 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN Sub-strategy 2.2. Maternal nutrition interventions in other sectors Social protection sector: The Departments of Social Welfare of Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan are committed to expanding social protection programmes for eligible women who meet explicit criteria – that is, they are part of low-income, food insecure or marginalized households – through awareness raising for households and women. They are also committed to coordinating with the health sector to identify eligible women and link them to appropriate benefits. Agriculture and food sector: To improve women’s nutrition in both regions, the agriculture and food sectors will undertake several activities to improve food and nutrition security. Regional Food Departments and authorities will facilitate the availability of and access to fortified foods, while promoting the consumption of fortified foods. They will also undertake awareness raising initiatives, strengthen knowledge of unhealthy foods, and explore options for regulating and labelling foods with a high content of trans fatty acids and highly processed foods. Departments of Agriculture and Livestock, alongside community development programmes, will promote and expand homestead food production, including home gardening, livestock rearing, egg production and dairy production. This will be done through livelihood and skills training, paired with in-kind asset transfers and conditional cash transfers for resource-poor women, in order to support their initiatives. Regional Departments of Agriculture, Livestock and Health will work together to train agricultural extension workers to provide information on food safety, food preservation and dietary diversity to families. Water, sanitation and hygiene sector: Public Health and Engineering Departments, hand in hand with water and sanitation agencies in the regions, will facilitate and promote optimal sanitation and hygiene practices and behaviours. The WASH sector will develop and maintain adequate water and sanitation infrastructure at health facilities that provide maternal health and nutrition services. The WASH sector