will be created for home use. Another specific focus will be approaches that target husbands to increase their engagement and support for maternal nutrition. Strategic area 2. Programme and implement Sub-strategy 2.1. Maternal nutrition interventions in the health sector All of Pakistan’s provinces have committed to updating interventions for maternal nutrition and providing a comprehensive package of services that will be delivered through antenatal care and postnatal care, and will be part of the essential package of health services and universal health coverage, as detailed in the federal strategic plan (see Chapter 3, Section 3.3, above). All of the provinces have proposed substantive efforts to strengthen health systems for the provision of antenatal care, postnatal care and maternal nutrition interventions in order to provide optimal maternal health and nutrition services. These efforts include strengthening functional integration, enhancing the capacity of health care providers and frontline workers (Lady Health Workers, community midwives and community health workers), and improving the supply chain. The provinces will also explore possibilities for providing interventions to women during the preconception period by reaching out to newly married couples during their registration by Lady Health Workers. Punjab has proposed incorporating nutrition services in its family planning package, which is being provided to eligible couples. It has also proposed providing preconception counselling on maternal nutrition in outpatient departments (OPD) through Lady Health Workers and community midwives for newly married couples, as well as revising guidelines for folic acid supplementation for newly married women during the preconception period. Preconception efforts in all provinces will be linked with the strategic actions for adolescent girls enshrined in the Pakistan Adolescent Nutrition Strategy. Sub-strategy 2.2. Maternal nutrition interventions in other sectors Social protection sector: The provinces will strengthen social protection programmes for eligible women who are part of low-income households, while ensuring that these women are aware of available benefits and social safety nets. The provinces will also design social protection interventions, such as conditional cash transfers for pregnant and lactating women with health and nutrition-related conditionalities. These conditionalities include antenatal care and postnatal care attendance, nutrition education sessions and the use of supplements. Where feasible, social protection platforms can be used for the direct distribution of supplements and fortified foods. Agriculture and food sector: Approaches will be employed in this sector to evoke changes that lead to improved nutrition among women. Provincial Food Departments and authorities will facilitate 57 MATERNAL NUTRITION