of family planning should be used that decrease bleeding [2]. Birth spacing is also very important as it helps in replenishing depleted iron stores as a result of pregnancy and childbirth [17]. Other interventions: Other interventions include control of malaria and other infectious diseases [18]. Interventions on public level include analysis of the problem, raising awareness, building partnerships within different sectors like health, agriculture, pharmaceuticals, nongovernmental organizations and government agencies. Review of existing programs and their impact is highly essential for improvement. Monitoring programs should be developed. Since in our settings women do not have access to health care resources so it is important to identify and treat cases of iron deficiencies, malaria, helminths and focus on high-risk groups (antenatal, delivery and postpartum). Besides, use of behavior change strategies can also be useful. Applicability to Pakistani population In developing countries, dietary intake of iron is already of substandard level due to lack of availability and affordability. The majority of diet content either consists of plant origin or of non-haem iron sources which have a low bioavailability. The strong inhibitors of iron absorption like cereal grains and tea are also a part of the routine diet. Nutritional measures should be taken in high-risk groups especially, but the issue of applicability remains a question in the presence of low socioeconomic status and especially poor countries [1]. Iron fortification of food can be an appropriate measure since iron overload is not common and at least 90% of the female population have anemia [1], but in areas where infectious diseases are endemic, this would not be as applicable since malaria may be aggravated by the presence of plenty of iron stores. Although studies do not show any evidenced change in the status of malaria in iron supplemented children [1]. In Southeast Asian countries “NaFeEDTA” fortified fish sauce is seen to improve iron status. Several Southeast Asian countries are planning to introduce iron -fortified flour [1]. Use of iron and multivitamin sprinkles are also effective. It can easily be added to the routine diet. A randomized controlled trial was done in India in 2004, it was concluded that “sprinkles” were very effective in treating iron deficiency [19]. Its applicability in Pakistani population can be suggested since it has already been tried in a developing country. In regions of higher prevalence of anemia, iron supplementations should be used frequently to cover highrisk groups [1]. Some studies