impact on maternal nutrition outcomes. For women in the workplace, maternity protection laws need to be enforced and monitored in order 33 World Health Organization, ‘Maximizing Gains for Maternal and Child Health’, Preconception Care Policy Brief, WHO, Geneva, 2013; World Health Organization, Recommendations on Postnatal Care for the Mother and Newborn, WHO, Geneva, 2013; World Health Organization, WHO Recommendations on Antenatal Care for Positive Pregnancy Experience, WHO, Geneva, 2016; South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, Regional Maternal Nutrition Guidance (draft), SAARC, Kathmandu, 2020; United Nations Children’s Fund, Global Nutrition Strategy 2020–2030, UNICEF, New York, 2020. 34 World Health Organization, Preventing early pregnancy and poor reproductive outcomes among adolescents in developing countries, WHO, Geneva, 2011. 36 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN to protect employment, safeguard maternity leave with cash benefits during leave, ensure medical care, protect pregnant and breastfeeding women’s health from workplace risks, protect women from dismissal and discrimination, and promote breastfeeding upon their return to work. For low-income households, cash transfers are used around the world to reduce poverty because they are efficient, empower recipients as decision-makers, and can help to build social safety nets. While there is mixed evidence of cash transfer programmes affecting women’s nutritional outcomes, these types of social benefit programmes can be linked with conditionalities related to the utilization of health and nutrition services.35 Policies should be strengthened to provide these types of social benefit programmes directed towards maternal health and nutrition for low-income families in Pakistan, including improved targeting and monitoring. Effective policies, regulatory frameworks and strategies in agriculture and food systems are important for improving the availability, affordability, access to and consumption of diverse nutritious foods. At the population level, food fortification is considered an effective strategy to decrease micronutrient malnutrition by adding essential nutrients to centrally-processed staple foods, as outlined by the GAIN Copenhagen Consensus. In line with Pakistan’s National Food Fortification Strategy, legislation on food fortification – especially the fortification of staples and salt – should be enforced and monitored at all levels. At the same time, it is vital to ensure the affordability of fortified staple foods, as well as to promote the consumption of fortified foods by women and their families at the household level. Efforts are also needed to strengthen food environments to protect women from harmful marketing practices and facilitate healthy food choices. Recently passed legislation to enforce trans fatty acid (TFA) limits need to be enforced