and Engineering Departments, hand in hand with water and sanitation agencies in the regions, will facilitate and promote optimal sanitation and hygiene practices and behaviours. The WASH sector will develop and maintain adequate water and sanitation infrastructure at health facilities that provide maternal health and nutrition services. The WASH sector will forge links with the health sector to promote awareness on personal and environmental hygiene in households, as well as to integrate essential hygiene actions into antenatal care and postnatal care packages. Education sector: Regional Departments of Education will ensure that maternal nutrition topics are part of nursing and medical school curricula and training. They will build explicit links with academic institutions that conduct research on maternal nutrition in order to use lessons learned from this research to inform programming. Sub-strategy 2.3. Disaster-prone districts and emergency situations The regions will strengthen their disaster risk reduction capacities by including maternal nutrition needs in the health sector response to disasters and emergency situations. The National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), Departments of Health (DoH) and partner organizations will conduct risk assessments to identify and develop contingency plans for addressing food and nutrition insecurity among women and their families. They will ensure that measures for safeguarding women’s health and nutrition are included in preparedness guidelines, disaster risk management (DRM) plans and the National Disaster Management Authority’s relief and recovery plans. Capacity development for relevant stakeholders will involve training on nutrition in emergencies. Based on global guidance on nutrition and COVID-19,48 key activities have been, and will continue to be, 48 World Food Programme, United Nations Children’s Fund, Global Nutrition Cluster (GNC) and Global Technical Assistance Mechanism for Nutrition (GTAM), ‘Protecting Maternal Diets and Nutrition Services and Practices in the Context of COVID-19’, Brief No. 4, 22 April 2020. 54 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN undertaken in Pakistan to ensure that nutrition services are provided continuously and without disruption for women across the country. Strategic area 3. Evidence-based programming through MEAL Sub-strategy 3.1. Monitoring, Evaluation, Accountability and Learning Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan will strengthen routine monitoring, evaluation and accountability for maternal nutrition services. This will done by first assessing gaps and updating routine information systems to capture additional maternal nutrition-related indicators beyond antenatal care (ANC-1) attendance, anaemia diagnosed during the first antenatal care visit, family planning services and commodities provided, and the administration of the tetanus toxoid vaccine. Additional indicators include the number