Such findings should lead to a more comprehensive response to address common problems across multiple facilities or communities. Long-term: At the national or provincial level a longer-term strategic plan should be developed to focus on key priorities identified in the districts or geographical areas where more deaths are occurring. Guiding Principles for Response: • Start with avoidable factors identified during the review process; • Use evidence-based approaches; • Prioritize response based on prevalence, feasibility, costs, resources, health-system readiness, and impact; • Establish a timeline; • Decide how to monitor progress, effectiveness, and impact; • Integrate recommendations within annual health plans; • Monitor to ensure recommendations are being implemented; Implementation of the recommendations generated by MPDSR must be undertaken at the appropriate level. Interventions which call for improvement of the health facility setup, assignment of roles to staff, or adjustments to patient flow within the facility will all fall under the responsibility of the facility director and should be addressed on an immediate basis. Interventions that need action at the district level (such as redistribution of health care workers to facilities) are taken up to the district authorities. Interventions which require major 25 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) policy change including issuance of orders, reallocation of government resources or drug registration, will need to be taken up at the provincial or national level. The engagement and commitment of authorities at the various levels in the entire MPDSR process ensures their full involvement and willingness to support the recommendations that are generated through MPDSR implementation. 1.23. Dissemination Reports that summarize results, recommendations, and response actions are a critical component of MPDSR. An MPDSR reports is a critical element of programmatic plans for improvements at the national, provincial, district, and sub-district levels. The two types of reports from the MPDSR system are annual27 reports on maternal and perinatal deaths (the primary way to disseminate findings) and reports on the monitoring and evaluations of the system itself. The objective of disseminating reports is to share findings and highlight positive recommendations or innovations. It is not to apportion blame nor for media coverage. For dissemination, reports should be tailored to the audience. The main objective is to get the relevant information to the stakeholders who can implement the findings. The reports should focus on ways to improve the system rather than highlighting particular errors, and contents should be carefully