causes fatigue, decreased motor abilities, impaired memory and can also cause delays in mental development [15,16]. In addition to this, anemia in pregnancy can increase the risk of having a preterm delivery and preterm babies have other health concerns ranging from low birth weight and neural tube defects to death. A preterm birth is one of the main causes of infant mortality in developing countries and iron supplementation during pregnancy helps in reduction of risk of preterm birth [9]. The trend in developing countries is that adolescent girls achieve menarche being iron deficient and since it is not treated with diet due to lack of resources or awareness, it is carried on till pregnancy and leads to natal and post natal complications. “Infants and children born to iron-deficient mothers have a poorer cognitive development of the brain functions and a lower intelligence quotient than infants and children born to iron-replete mothers” [1]. The deficiency is carried on with multiple pregnancies and hence compromises health and increases risk of complications. Common sign and symptoms of anemia include feeling lethargy, slow development, difficulty in maintaining body temperature, decreased immune function, inflamed tongue headache, palpitations, dizziness, emotional instability, depression and restlessness [1]. One of the studies also indicates the increased occurrence of stress fractures related to anemia [15]. Intervention options to address the problem Dietary modifications: Interventions range from primary prevention that involves a focus on a healthy diet and including sources of iron. Good sources of iron include fruits, vegetables, whole grains, milk and milk products, lean meat, fish, dry beans, egg, nuts. A healthy diet includes diet low in saturated fats, trans fats, cholesterol, sugars and salt. Diet that can help in absorption of iron includes good sources of vitamin C (appendix III) and non-haem iron. This can especially be more effective when taken at the same time. Sources of non-haem iron include soy beans, kidney beans, chickpeas tomato puree etc. Different interventions are available for different age groups. Babies should be breastfed for at least a year and when the diet is started, it should contain iron-rich cereal or pureed meat. The interventions should start from earlier in childhood so that children grow healthy and not become deficient in the later part of their life. Fruits, vegetables and other sources of vitamin C should be added to the diet to meet the needs of growing children. Groups like young children,