within the first 40 days after delivery. A feeling of extreme weakness (48%), pallor (33%), and fever (32%) were the most common complications reported during the postpartum period. Other conditions were diagnosed by health care providers. Women were most likely to be informed by health providers about high blood pressure (14%) and problems with the position of the baby (7%). Six percent were informed about the slow intrauterine growth of the baby, 4% uterine prolapse, and 3% were informed of jaundice and/or hepatitis, problem with placenta, or blood deficiency. © 2007 Asad Zaidi, UNFPA Major Maternal Health Complications Diagnosed by a Health Care Provider Percent of last live births, stillbirths, miscarriages, and abortions in the 3 years before the survey for which women were informed by a health care provider High blood pressure 14 7 6 4 3 NOTE: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Problems associated with position of baby Slow growth in womb Uterine prolapse Jaundice and/or hepatitis Problem with placenta Blood deﬁciency Postpartum infection 3 3 2 Page 9 2019 Pakistan Maternal Mortality Survey Maternal Morbidities and Treatment The majority of ever-married women reported one or more complications during pregnancy (93%), delivery (34%), or the postpartum period (73%). Half of women in Pakistan received treatment for one or more maternal morbidities experienced during pregnancy, delivery or the postpartum period. Treatment seeking is lowest in Balochistan, where 31% of women sought treatment for one or more maternal morbidities and highest in Punjab (57%). More than one-third of women who experienced complications were diagnosed by a health care provider. Diagnosis of one or more maternal morbidities slightly increases with household wealth, from 28% of women in the poorest households to 39% of women in the wealthiest households. © 2007 Asad Zaidi, UNFPA Maternal Morbidities Diagnosed by a Health Care Provider by Household Wealth Percent of ever-married women age 15-49 who had a live birth, stillbirth, miscarriage or abortion in the 3 years before the survey who had one or more complications diagnosed by a health care provider Poorest 28 Second Middle 32 Fourth 35 36 Highest Wealthiest 39 Lowest NOTE: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Page 10 2019 Pakistan Maternal Mortality Survey Treatment for Complications Treatment during Pregnancy The most common complications during pregnancy identified by health care providers for which women received treatement include anaemia (27%), severe nausea and vomiting during pregnancy (19%),