at full scale in 2010, 45% of Pakistan flour will be fortified and 74.2 million people will be consuming this product regularly [22] Pakistan ministry of health gave the contract of manufacturing FeNaEDTA to Fortitech Asia Pacific in 2007 [23]. When micronutrient initiative program was evaluated it was identified that only 11% of the population is consuming iron-fortified wheat flour and 60% of women are currently reached by the iron and folic acid supplementation program. The project of iron fortification started in 2007 and it has benefitted half a million people to date [21,23]. In 2008, a study was done to evaluate existing interventions and changes brought by them in maternal and childhood undernutrition. Besides other interventions, it consisted of food supplements and micronutrient interventions. Effective micronutrient intervention in pregnant women consisted of supplementing with ironfolate (improved Hb 6.9 g/L higher as compared with no fortification). Micronutrient interventions reduced low birth weight at term by 16%. Multiple micronutrients supplements in pregnancy brought 39% reduction in maternal anemia. This study was designed to examine effects of interventions in 36 countries from Sub -Saharan Africa and South Central Asia. It was concluded that existing interventions could reduce intrauterine growth restrictions, severe wasting and micronutrient deficiencies by 25%. It is thus recommended that these interventions should be continued but work should be done on underlying determinants, that are poverty, poor education, lack of women empowerment and disease burden [24]. Randomized and quasiexperimental trials (31 studies) were also done in both developed and developing countries. It was revealed that daily iron supplement or combination supplement of iron plus folate during pregnancy was associated with 73% reduction in anemia. According to child health epidemiology reference group guidelines, it is recommended to be used in developing countries [25]. Several interventions exist at the country-wide level and are working effectively but we need to periodically keep on evaluating these interventions in order to identify gaps, accommodate changing needs of populations and make the interventions more effective. There is a need to expand the programs that are already working effectively and efficiently, for the whole population. Work should be done for educating the nation. Empowerment strategies should be implemented especially women empowerment. Resources should be mobilized on an equitable basis. Last but not the least government and private agencies should join together for the benefit of the nation. Conclusion Iron deficiency anemia is one of the important Public