Maternal Morbidity And Mortality Pak Armed Forces Med J 2017; 67 (4): 635-40 635 MATERNAL MORBIDITY AND MORTALITY IN PAKISTAN AN OVERVIEW OF MAJOR CONTRIBUTORS Asma Khan, Viqar Izhar*, Muhammad Amaar Viqar** University Institute of Public Health Lahore Pakistan, *Armed Forces Inspectorate of Medical Stores Lahore Pakistan, **Beacon House National University Lahore Pakistan ABSTRACT Objective: To assess the trend of the proportion of maternal mortality ratio (MMR) due to common direct causes that are the major contributors in Pakistan. Study Design: Descriptive method study. Place and Duration of Study: The study was conducted in Jun 2014. Material and Methods: Descriptive method study was conducted in June 2014. Data collected in different time periods from articles published between 01 Jan 2005 to 31 Dec 2012 in medical journals, proceedings of workshops/conferences as well as from newsletters of the National Committee of Maternal Health (NCMH) along with global borden of disease (GBD) 2013 to estimate MMR. Data were later tabulated accordingly in June 2014. Results: In the hospitals over 80% of the deaths are due to direct causes. Direct causes account for 78.1% of deaths, hemorrhage being the most common followed by sepsis, eclampsia, rupture of the uterus, and abortions. The contributors were greater in booked multi-gravid as of 20 to 40 years, para 3 to 5, under matric education and with less than Rs. 10,000 monthly income. Conclusion: Massive hemorrhage and uncontrolled hypertension are major contributors of maternal morbidity in Pakistan. Keywords: Anti partum hemorrhage, Eclampsia, Hypertension, Maternal mortality, Morbidity, Post-PArtum hemorrhage. INTRODUCTION Millennium development goal five requires a 75% reduction in MMR by 2015. Maternal mortality defined as death during pregnancy, childbirth or in 42 days after delivery-remains a major challenge world wise. A total of 30,000 women a year in Pakistan die due to pregnancy related causes and the maternal mortality ratio is approximately 340 per 100,000 live births. Together India, Pakistan and Bangladesh account for 46% of the world’s maternal deaths1. However, with only one year remaining before the 2015 deadline, Pakistan’s progress significantly lags behind its south Asian neighbors. The MMR of a country is indicative of its health and development status. Information on maternal mortality is required to determine this status and to set priorities for policy making and programmatic and operation research strategies. Data from around the world shows that there is great disparity between the maternal mortality of the developing and developed world. Even