forces must strongly advocate for legal protection of the information, received from the maternal death review process, from the possibility of it being accessed for litigation purposes. In addition, mechanisms must be instituted to ensure the removal of identifiers for the women/babies who died, as well as health care providers, to minimize possibility of those involved being identified if the information fell in the wrong hands. 1.11.1. Role of the federal government: ensure an enabling environment Evidence from countries that have MDSR systems shows the importance of an enabling environment. Implementation of MPDSR requires coordination and collaboration among multiple stakeholders operating within the surveillance system and the health ministry. Support for MPDSR from M/o NHR&C leadership is essential. MPDSR must be recognized as an important component of any M/o NHR&C strategy to reduce or eliminate preventable maternal and perinatal mortality. The M/o NHR&C should institutionalize MPDSR systems by adopting the following policies for the essential components: • A national policy to notify and review all maternal deaths (and eventually perinatal death); • Set up MPDSR committee at the national level to analyze aggregated data from provinces to determine trends in maternal and perinatal mortality in Pakistan and to aggregate the most common causes (both medical and non-medical) of maternal deaths; • Implement recommendations for improvements to the health system that result from the MPDSR process; • Create the environment of providing legal protection (indemnity) and confidentiality of all involved cases of maternal or perinatal death i.e. “no name no blame.” 1.11.2. Role of provincial government: provide an enabling environment and lead implementation of MPDSR Similar to the national level, the provincial government has an essential role in facilitating the coordination, collaboration, and cooperation of key stakeholders: • Legislate to make maternal death (and eventually perinatal death) a notifiable event 17 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) • Set up a provincial MPDSR committee to regularly analyze aggregated data from districts to determine trends; • mandate that review committees are set up at district levels and at all health facilities with a delivery rate greater than 500 per year; • Legal protection (indemnity) of all involved including the families, the health personnel and the facilities involved.24 1.11.3. Quality assurance The usefulness of the MPDSR system is dependent on the quality of data gathered and analysed. It is important that data collectors are properly trained to gather