to promote the consumption of fortified foods by women and their families at the household level. Efforts are also needed to strengthen food environments to protect women from harmful marketing practices and facilitate healthy food choices. Recently passed legislation to enforce trans fatty acid (TFA) limits need to be enforced and monitored at all levels through federal and provincial regulatory bodies. The labelling foods with high trans fatty acid contents should be considered. Possibilities should also be explored for developing legislation on the regulation, taxation and labelling of sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs), as well as for updating food-based dietary guidelines to ensure that women’s needs are met across their life course. Sub-strategy 1.2. Establish and strengthen financing and resource allocations for maternal nutrition Effective budgeting and resource allocations for maternal nutrition require adequate, effective, efficient and equitable public financing and alignment across financing streams for implementation plans.36 Pakistan needs a combination of a costing exercise – conducted to estimate the funding needed to scale up the updated package of maternal nutrition interventions – and the tracking of current investments to assess financing gaps. This Maternal Nutrition Strategy aims to support federal and provincial policy makers and programmers to prioritize actions for maternal nutrition, to conduct a costing or budget needs assessment and to advocate for increased budget allocations for maternal nutrition activities in the health sector, as well as for nutrition-related activities in other sectors (agriculture/food, social protection, WASH and education). Resource allocations should also address equity concerns considering differences in geographic residence, income, livelihoods and education. Furthermore, approaches need to be developed to address the challenges of insufficient funds and budget allocations at the provincial and district levels, in addition to addressing lengthy 35 Victora, Cesar G, et al., ‘Scaling up maternal nutrition programs to improve birth outcomes: A review of implementation issues’, Food and Nutrition Bulletin, vol., 33, no. 2, suppl. 1, June 2012, pp. S6–S26. 36 South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, Regional Maternal Nutrition Guidance (draft), SAARC, Kathmandu, 2020; United Nations Children’s Fund, Indicator and Monitoring Framework for the Global Strategy for Women’s, Children’s and Adolescent’s Health (2016–2030), UNICEF, New York, 2016; Maximising the Quality of Scaling up Nutrition Network, ‘Planning and Costing to Accelerate Actions for Scaling Up Nutrition’, MQSUN briefing paper 3, August 2014. 37 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN timelines for the approval and dispersal of budgets. Additional efforts will be made to advocate