by 2030. Likewise the ENAP sets out a vision of a world in which there are no preventable deaths of newborns or stillbirths, where every pregnancy is wanted, every birth celebrated, and where women, babies and children survive, thrive, and reach their full potential. Effective interventions to prevent and treat maternal and perinatal complications are well known, and most deaths are preventable if lifesaving preventive and therapeutic interventions are provided at the right time. To understand how well we are progressing, however, accurate information on how many women and newborns died, where they died and why they died is essential, yet currently inadequate. In the absence of reliable vital registration data, maternal mortality estimates are based on statistical models. While statistical estimates increase global awareness of the problem, they do not provide information needed for targeted and timely response. The Commission on Information and Accountability was created to track progress on resources and results towards 8 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination the goals of the UN Secretary-General’s Global Strategy on Women’s and Children’s Health. It recommended three interconnected processes – monitoring, reviewing and acting – aimed at learning and continuous improvement in lifesaving interventions. Maternal and Perinatal death surveillance and response (MPDSR) builds on the principles of public health surveillance and supports the processes called for by the Commission. MPDSR promotes routine identification and timely notification of maternal and perinatal deaths and is a form of continuous surveillance linking health information system and quality improvement processes from local to national level. It helps in quantification and determination of causes and avoidability of maternal and perinatal deaths. Each one of these untimely fatalities provides valuable information, which if acted on, can prevent future deaths. In that regard, MPDSR emphasizes the link between information and response. MPDSR will contribute to strengthening vital registration and better counting of maternal and perinatal deaths, and provide better information for action and monitoring improvements in maternal and newborn health. MDSR is now formally embedded in World Health Organization’s policy and activity. It is integral to the WHO Quality of Care initiative and to the new Global Strategy for Women’s, Children’s and Adolescents’ Health, and is also part of the Ending Preventable Maternal Mortality (EPMM) and Every Newborn Action Plan (ENAP) initiatives. 1.2. Current Pakistan Situation Pakistan contributes substantially to regional and global maternal and perinatal mortality figures, but the exact