and monitoring of the ban on breastmilk substitutes. Progress varies across provinces, as processes are at different stages in each province. Punjab, Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa have established regulated standards for the main dietary sources of trans fatty acids. Punjab has also proposed the development of legislation to regulate media advertisements related to different nutritional supplements targeted at pregnant and lactating women and young infants. 55 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN All of Pakistan’s provinces will explore commitments to integrate essential nutrition actions within universal health coverage. This will begin with a proposed review of gaps and moves to update maternal nutrition interventions within the package, followed by provincial endorsements of integration. Every province will strengthen and/or establish a provincial chapter of the Maternal, Infant, Young Child and Adolescent Nutrition Technical Advisory Group. Punjab already has a MIYCAN chapter in place, while Sindh, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan need to establish their own chapters of this technical working group at the provincial level. All of the provinces will also improve communication and reporting between provincial chapters and the federal MIYCAN Technical Advisory Group. All provinces will revitalize and bolster their existing multi-sectoral coordination platform – that is, steering committees at the provincial and district levels – for the inclusion of maternal nutrition interventions that will be implemented in all sectors. Intra-sectoral coordination for nutrition within the health sector varies by province. In Punjab, nutrition is already integrated in the health sector through the Integrated Reproductive Maternal Neonatal Child Health and Nutrition (IRMNCH&N) Programme. In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, nutrition is being reincorporated into the Integrated Health Programme (IHP), which also includes the Maternal, Newborn and Child Health Programme and the Lady Health Worker Programme. In Sindh and Balochistan, nutrition is a separate programme and efforts will be made to improve coordination with maternal nutrition actions within health sector programmes. Sub-strategy 1.2. Financing and resource allocations The provinces will review and revise resource allocations for existing and updated maternal nutrition interventions within health sector programmes. These include resources for maternal nutrition commodities and equipment at health facilities and for community outreach, as well as filling gaps in human resources, curriculum development and training. They also include resources for updated social and behaviour change approaches and the development of information, education and communication materials for frontline workers and health care providers, such as job aids and counselling materials, among others. Each province will revise its