randomized to the intervention and usual care groups. A 600 sample size will be recruited from three centers. All patients will be followed up till delivery. Post randomisation evaluation will be done at 28 and 36 weeks regarding maternal hemoglobin, serum ferritin, MFI scoring, obstetrical scan for fetal parameters, blood transfusion, development of any complication (preeclampsia, preterm labor, IUGR) and fetal birth weight. Fetal cord hemoglobin and serum ferritin will be checked after delivery. In this way, assessment for primary and secondary outcomes will be done and data set prepared for analysis. METHODS Participants, Intervention and outcome: Study setting: FAIR trial will be conducted in respective departments of obstetrics of three teaching hospitals of Lahore including Services Institute of Medical Sciences and its Services Hospital, Allama Iqbal Medical College and its Jinnah Hospital, and Fatima Jinnah Medical University and its Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. Eligibility Criteria: Selection criteria is established using the PICO or population, intervention, comparison and outcome framework explained in Table-I. Participant Timeline: From booking (<20 weeks) till delivery of the fetus (Fig.1). Sample Size: Using haemoglobin at 36 weeks as a continuous outcome measure and to confirm or refute a small to medium effect of screening/intervention vs usual care (0.3 SD difference), based on ά = 0.05 and β = 0.1 (90% power), 235 patients in each group (i.e. 470 patients in total) will be required. Considering a 20% loss to follow-up, the sample size is inflated to 300 patients in each group (i.e. 600 patients in total). Recruitment: Patient recruitment service providers in outpatient departments will educate the public about the value of clinical trial participation and will encourage the enrollment. All singleton pregnant women with gestational age <20 weeks coming to outdoor department of respective hospitals will be screened for hemoglobin and serum ferritin. If their hemoglobin ≥11g/dl and serum ferritin concentration <30ug/l they will be enrolled for trial after taking informed consent and randomization will be carried out. Methods: Assignment of Interventions Allocation: After recruiting the participants, their data will be entered by investigators sitting in outpatient department in a online computer software program made by technology team that will assign a pin code to every participant which will help in follow up entry of each participant´s data and data analysis by technology team. After randomization, computer software will automatically generate numbers to the participants in an allocation ratio of 1:1 to each group,