of supplements. Where feasible, social protection platforms can be used for the direct distribution of supplements and fortified foods. Agriculture and food sector: Approaches will be employed in this sector to evoke changes that lead to improved nutrition among women. Provincial Food Departments and authorities will facilitate 57 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN the availability of and access to fortified foods, while promoting the consumption of fortified foods. They will raise awareness and enhance knowledge of unhealthy foods, in addition to exploring options for the regulation and labelling of such foods, that is, foods that have a high content of trans fatty acids or are highly processed. Departments of Agriculture, Fisheries and Livestock will promote and expand homestead food production, including home gardening, livestock and egg production, and dairy production. This will involve the distribution of seeds and other commodities, paired with skills and livelihood training for resource-poor women. Agricultural extension services will strengthen efforts to provide services for women, linked with nutrition education and the use of complementary information, education and communication materials. Water, sanitation and hygiene sector: Provincial Public Health and Engineering Departments and water and sanitation agencies will facilitate optimal sanitation and hygiene practices and behaviours. The WASH sector will develop and maintain adequate WASH infrastructure at health facilities that provide maternal health and nutrition services. The sector will also forge links with the health sector to promote awareness of personal and environmental hygiene within households, as well as to integrate essential hygiene actions into antenatal care and postnatal care packages. Education sector: Provincial Departments of Education will ensure that maternal nutrition topics are part of nursing and medical school curricula and training. They will build explicit links with academic institutions that conduct maternal nutrition research, in order to use lessons learned from such research to inform programming. In Punjab, it is proposed that opportunities for nutrition graduates should be expanded by offering them nutrition-related posts in health and research facilities. Sub-strategy 2.3. Disaster-prone districts and emergency situations Provincial Disaster Management Authorities (PDMAs) will strengthen disaster risk reduction plans by including maternal nutrition needs in the health sector response. They will enhance communication and coordination with the National Disaster Management Authority and District Disaster Management Authorities (DDMAs) to address maternal nutrition needs. Risk assessments will be conducted to identify vulnerabilities in terms of food security, diets, and the nutrition of pregnant and lactating women and women of