of facility. The MPDSR coordinator assigned in the facility is responsible for confirming a maternal death, filling MDF1 to notify to the district coordinator, filling out MDR2 tool for data collection, organizing the meetings, and presenting the case to a secretary who will fill out the MDF4 for onward transmission and follow the response plan of action. Sample TORs: • Convene meetings to review all maternal deaths reported in the facility; • Assign a cause of death, using ICD –MM; • Discuss identified service delivery gaps and propose remedial actions within the facility; • Identify facility deaths that require further investigation at community level through data collection tool MDF3(visit to household of the deceased); • Record keeping, monitoring and feedback to facilities; • Develop facility action plans to address identified gaps; • Mobilize internal and external resources to ensure implementation of recommended actions; • Share reported death (including zero reporting) and recommendations to district/ • provincial committee and follow up implementation as required. 30 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination 1.26.2. District Committee The frequency of committee reviews will depend on the number of deaths. The District MPDSR committee meets in a timely manner to analyze and discuss all deaths that have been reported in the district, by both the facilities and communities. 1.26.3. Provincial Committee The Provincial MPDSR Committee meets at least on a quarterly basis to review, analyze and discuss all deaths that have been reported in the entire province. Sample Composition: Chaired by the Executive District officer, the Committee includes DHO, DC MNCH, LHW coordinator, HMIS coordinator, gynecologist, pediatrician/neonatologist, LHS/LHV, and representation of the private sector and/or NGO run maternity facilities. Other relevant program representatives, as well as in-charge of DHQs, nazims/naib nazims can been included as deemed appropriate. The DC MNCH acts as secretariat to the committee and is responsible for organizing the monthly meetings. Sample TORs: • Convene meetings to review all maternal and perinatal deaths reported in the district, and analyze trends; • Discuss identified service delivery gaps and propose remedial actions; • Record keeping, monitoring and feedback to facilities; • Develop district level action plans to address identified gaps; • Mobilize district level resources to ensure implementation of recommended actions; • Share reported death (including zero reporting) and recommendations to provincial committee and follow up implementation as required. Sample Composition: Chaired by the Provincial Director General Health Services,