society organizations (CSOs), non-governmental organizations (NGOs), professional bodies and faith-based organizations. The health sector is the custodian of the Maternal Nutrition Strategy at the federal and provincial levels. The Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination will lead the implementation of the Maternal Nutrition Strategy at the federal level, while provincial Departments of Health will lead the strategy’s implementation in the provinces. To ensure the effective implementation of the Maternal Nutrition Strategy, strong coordination will be developed with other sectors through existing government-led structures. These include steering committees and taskforces, with the cooperation of the Ministry of Planning, Development & Special Initiatives at the federal level and provincial Planning and Development Departments at the provincial level. Federal implementation The Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination has a key role in nutritionspecific programming and regulations, as well as inter-sectoral and intra-sectoral coordination. The Maternal, Infant, Young Child and Adolescent Nutrition Technical Advisory Group within the ministry will provide technical direction for nutrition-specific and nutrition-sensitive approaches and interventions. This platform provides a forum for advocacy, coordination, planning and the exchange of best practices and lessons learned, with a view to offering strategic direction for maternal nutrition programmes and the development of technical guidelines. The platform will also monitor progress at the national and provincial levels, and offer appropriate recommendations to improve programming. The Ministry of Planning, Development & Special Initiatives and the federal SUN Secretariat will support coordination with, and efforts to build links between, nutrition-sensitive and nutrition61 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN specific interventions, when required. They will also facilitate resource mobilization, effective implementation and the monitoring of nutrition-sensitive interventions and activities. The National Food Fortification Alliance will coordinate with the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination to implement, monitor and evaluate food fortification interventions. The Ehsaas Programme will be engaged by the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination’s Nutrition Wing to implement social protection interventions related to maternal health and nutrition for eligible low-income women. All concerned ministries will ensure that adequate resources are in place for the comprehensive implementation of the Maternal Nutrition Strategy, in line with their specific roles. Non-provincial regions will be guided by the federal plan. Provincial implementation Punjab has already established a provincial chapter of the Maternal, Infant, Young Child and Adolescent Nutrition Technical Advisory Group, while Sindh, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan will also set up MIYCAN TAG