of medical and nonmedical contributing factors that led to the death, assessment of avoidability (substandard care) and development of recommendations for preventing future deaths, and immediate implementation of pertinent recommendations. Reviews must be done by a multidisciplinary committee made up of qualified stakeholders including OB/GYNs, pediatricians, hospital administrative staff, anesthetists, and epidemiologists etc. 4. Analysis and aggregation of data Reviews are aggregated at the district level and reported to the provincial level and then onward to the national level. 5. Recommendationsrecommendations for action can be at facility, district/community, provincial and national levels. National action recommendations are made based on the aggregated data from all the provinces. 6. ResponseImplement recommendations made by the review committee and those based on aggregated data analyses. Actions can address problems at the community, facility, or multi-sectoral level. 7. Monitoring and Evaluation of the system 8. Dissemination of results FIGURE 1. Maternal Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) system: a continuous-action cycle 16 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination 1.10. Sources of information For the process to be comprehensive, MPDSR must eventually be implemented at all levels where maternal and perinatal deaths can occur. The two major sources of information for timely reporting of maternal and co-occurring perinatal deaths are health-care facilities (where women give birth and are attended to when they have pregnancy complications) and communities (when women give birth at home or on the way to a health-care facility or die during pregnancy without receiving medical care). 1.11. MPDSR Administrative, Policy & Legal Elements An MPDSR system is more likely to be successful if certain regulations and legal protections are in place. The implementation and sustainability of an MPDSR system are influenced by several legal challenges since laws and customs can either help or hinder access to information, the conduct of the investigation, and the way the findings are used. They can also influence the involvement of health care professionals in MPDSR processes. The protection of the MPDSR system from litigation is important if it is to achieve maximum participation and overall success. The national and provincial MPDSR task forces must strongly advocate for legal protection of the information, received from the maternal death review process, from the possibility of it being accessed for litigation purposes. In addition, mechanisms must be instituted to ensure the removal of identifiers for the women/babies who died, as well as health care providers,