step: reviewing the death to assign a cause, assess avoidability/substandard care, etc. requires special expertise and therefore must be done by the district MPDSR committee (not by LHWs, CMWs etc, even if they are trained to collect the data). Some suspected maternal death cases will be obvious (e.g. the woman died during childbirth or shortly afterwards, or she was in her third trimester and the pregnancy was evident). Other cases may be less obvious (e.g. a death from complications of an abortion, whether spontaneous or induced, an ectopic pregnancy, or a death that occurs many weeks after childbirth). A few screening questions on MDF 1the notification form (appendix 1) will establish whether the family had any knowledge that the woman was pregnant at the time of death or if she had delivered in the past 6 weeks. Depending on the capability of the informant the district coordinator may either receive a completed notification form MDF1 or may fill it out him/ herself if the information is provided by telephone or other medium. To ensure that all maternal deaths are captured in communities where dates and times may not easily be ascertained, the 42 days can be extended to 2-3 months. 22 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination The report of the death of a WRA should include the name of the woman, her age, where she resided, where she died, when she died, and the name of the person making the report. Once a maternal or perinatal death is identified, the district MPDSR coordinator is notified (ideally within 48 hours of the death). Registration of deaths can be undertaken by LHS (Jaiza Karkardagi report) and Assistant District Coordinator (ADC) for LHW program. A clearly defined method of communication must be set up that connects informants who will report the death to the district MPDSR committee coordinator. A list of all coordinators at locality level with contact information needs to be generated, distributed to the public and LHVs etc in the area, and regularly updated for ease of communication. 1.16. Community Data Collection To ensure quality and completeness of data MDF 3 – the community data tool (appendix 3) should be used by trained collectors who are aware of both medical and non medical causes of death. Data collection team members should also be aware from the outset of the extreme care and diplomacy needed in