lives in the rural areas10. Most of the births take place in home setting without proper trained midwives by the traditional birth attendant. Unfortunately, they do not take precautionary measures to control the source of infection11. Insufficient medical aid or unavailability of maternity homes in the rural areas is also a problem. Also, inability to provide complete health facilities in pregnancy puts the mother in an intricate situation often leading to death. Physical labor during gestation also results in devastating outcomes. In the rural areas, women has to work hard to bring their families up. Also, work at home without rest results in stress and fatigues for pregnant women12. MDG also address women health and include one of its goal focusing on reducing MMR. Sustainable developmental goals stress to further decrease the ratio of maternal mortality in developing countries particularly. Maternal mortality poses a great challenge for both developed and developing countries. Efforts to reduce preventable contributors of maternal mortality could help to decrease this burden13. Determinants of Maternal Mortality in Pakistan 614 P J M H S Vol. 15, NO. 3, MARCH 2021 In community setting, early marriage are a threat to mother health. It has become the tradition commonly practiced in rural areas of Pakistan14. Improper diet and inaccessibility to health services further worsen the situation and had debilitating effects on mother health. Female education is also a preventable cause in reducing maternal mortality15. METHODOLOGY A cross sectional study was conducted in obstetrics and gynecology unit of a tertiary health care sector of Pakistan. Data was collected from patient records saved in registers. It included mother’s age, number of children, reason of death in hospital settings and those without any identifiable reason titled as iatrogenic death. Previous data pertaining to maternal mortality during September 2012 to 2018 was gathered. Confidentiality was maintained and ethical considerations were followed. Both direct and indirect causes leading to maternal mortality were identified. Data relating to mothers age 15 to 45 years was included in this research study. RESULTS In this study, record of 326 maternal deaths during a period of 2012 to 2018 revealed multiple contributors of mortality. Table # 1: Parity status of mothers. Parity Frequency Percentage Primigravidas 46 14.11 Multigravidas 84 25.76 Grand Multigravidas 196 60.12 Results depict that parity is a leading cause of death. As, in this study it is evident in above table, mostly mothers were grand