facilities; • Develop district level action plans to address identified gaps; • Mobilize district level resources to ensure implementation of recommended actions; • Share reported death (including zero reporting) and recommendations to provincial committee and follow up implementation as required. Sample Composition: Chaired by the Provincial Director General Health Services, the Committee includes a larger representation of all concerned stakeholders at provincial levelMNCH Program; DHO, LHW, HMIS, DC MNCH from all districts, obstetricians/gynecologists and pediatricians/neonatologists from implementing facilities including private sector. The MNCH/IRMNCH director at provincial level acts as secretariat to the committee and is responsible for organizing the quarterly meetings. Sample TORs: • Convene quarterly meetings to review all maternal and perinatal neonatal deaths reported in the province and analyze trends; • Discuss identified service delivery gaps, propose remedial actions and follow up implementation as required; • Record keeping, monitoring and feedback to districts; • Develop provincial level action plans to address identified gaps; 31 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) • Mobilize provincial level resources to ensure implementation of recommended actions; • Share reported death (including zero reporting) and recommendations to national committee and follow up implementation as required; • Publish annual provincial report of deaths, recommendations & responses; • Disseminates to relevant stakeholders and provides feedback to concerned partners. 1.26.4. National Committee The National MPDSR Committee meets at least bi-annually to review, analyze and discuss all deaths that have been reported in the entire country. MPDSR reporting can be added as a regular agenda point in the meetings of the National RMNCH Task force. In addition the national level is responsible for developing the Standards of Care and ensuring that MPDR is included into the basic training of health professionals. Sample Composition: Chaired by the National Director General Health, the Committee includes a larger representation of all concerned stakeholders at provincial levelProvincial DGs, MNCH/IRMNCH director; representatives of associations (obstetricians/ gynecologists and pediatricians/neonatologists), partners, academia, relevant national programs, related sectors (Planning, Population Welfare, Education, Nutrition & Food security, Information, Roads & infra-structure etc) including private sector epidemiologist . The MNCH director at national level acts as secretariat to the committee and is responsible for organizing the biannual meetings. Sample TORs: • Convene bi-annual meetings to review all maternal and neonatal deaths reported in the country and analyze trends; • Record keeping, monitoring and feedback to provinces; • Discuss identified service delivery gaps, propose