and perinatal Indicators and the fact that Pakistan contributes substantially towards the regional and global maternal and perinatal mortality; the exact magnitude of maternal deaths is not precisely known. Reporting and tracking maternal and perinatal deaths and response to reduce preventable deaths remains the major challenge in Pakistan. Maternal and perinatal death surveillance and response (MPDSR) is a proven tool for improving quality of care and strengthening the health systems to address the critical healthcare needs for mothers and newborns. In view of this, the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination, Government of Pakistan, in collaboration with World Health Organization, has developed the National Protocols on MPDSR in May 2017. These national protocols include detailed guidelines and tools for implementing MPDSR system at the facility and community levels. Training materials based on these protocols have also been formulated. These are expected to be pivotal in building capacities for routine tracking of all maternal and perinatal deaths with expected results of improved healthcare quality for mothers and their babies in the country. In the wake of 18” Constitutional Amendment, each province will have to spearhead the process of Implementing MPDSR. It Is important to note that this mortality data is a critical component of any public health information architecture. Ultimately, all deaths, including maternal and perinatal deaths, should be reported to a civil registration/vital statistics system (CR/ V5) compiled at the federal level. I wish to acknowledge and commend on the technical expertise of the lead consultant, Prof. Dr Lubna Hassan, Ex-President of Society of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists of Pakistan (SOGP) and our development partners namely World Health Organization (WHO), United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF) and other relevant stakeholders. I highly recommend this document for all stakeholders and strongly hope that it will be put to practical use at all levels across the country. FOREWORD Dr. Assad Hafeez Director General Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination Government of Pakistan Islamahad 4 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation and Coordination (Mo/NHSR&C), in collaboration with the UN partners (WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA) has developed the National Guidelines on Maternal and Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) in May 2017. The development of this document is a major breakthrough in paving the way for reduction of preventable maternal and perinatal deaths in