MPDSR in Pakistan revealed that apart from sporadic, ad hoc projects in the provinces little has been done. In 2015 with support from UNFPA, Punjab started the process of MPDSR at the community level, in a 9 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) few districts, which is ongoing. In order to harmonize the efforts of development partners, WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA agreed to work from one platform. Currently WHO is assisting the effort at the national level and in KP and Balochistan, and UNICEF is assisting Sindh. In February 2017, recognizing the need for sharing of and learning from experiences of different stakeholders, M/o NHR&C organized a one day workshop to review the MPDSR strategy with the objective of developing guidelines and tools which the provinces could use and implement easily. It was concluded subsequently that a national task force will be created with the objective to establish the MPDSR in a systematic way. While Maternal Death Reviews (MDR) have been established in most countries for more than a decade, formal MDRs are still not widely conducted in Pakistan. What is currently available is limited data from the teaching hospitals. Maternal deaths are identified in most teaching facilities, however, they are not reviewed properly: the cause of death is not assigned according to ICD –MM; standards of care are not uniform; contributing causes are not considered, and most importantly systematic response to prevent future deaths is lacking. 1.4. Global Lessons Learned Although MDSR is a relatively new approach, its components have developed over several decades. MDSR evolved from the established system of maternal death reviews (MDR), which is a core activity in the system. Detailed information about the extent and quality of implementation in each country has been largely unavailable due to the recent origins of MDSR and the lack of systematic data collection. However the combined findings of the MDSR baseline survey (conducted in 2015 by UNFPA & WHO and reported in the document “A time to respond”) and the WHO-MNCAH policy indicator database provide a good summary of global implementation status in 2015. They indicate the widespread adoption of important elements of the MDSR system and also highlight the lack of progress towards full implementation in numerous countries. The disparity between the percentage of countries with a national policy to review all maternal deaths (85%) and those with a national maternal death review