• Water, sanitation and hygiene • Disease prevention and management • Universal education with a focus on gender • Family planning and reproductive health services • Delayed cord clamping Optimal Care Practices Adequate food (security, availability and economic access) Adequate feeding and care resources (food preparation, consumption and hygiene) Adequate services (health, food and sanitation) and a healthy living environment Optimal Diets Reduced Disease Burden Cross-cutting: Strategic behaviour change through multiple audiences and channels; social and community mobilization; engagement of multiple stakeholders and sectors Effective implementation: Functioning systems (health, food, agriculture, social protection and education); data system strengthening; workforce delivery capacity; programme monitoring and evaluation for accountability Enabling environment: Supportive policies and legislation; political commitment, good governance and accountability; adequate funding and resources; positive norms (social and cultural commitments) Note: Adapted for maternal nutrition from the Lancet framework for action to achieve optimal foetal and child nutrition and development, 2013, the UNICEF conceptual framework on the determinants of maternal and child nutrition, 2020, and the Lancet conceptual framework for nutrition actions, 2021. 21 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN Chapter 2. MATERNAL NUTRITION SITUATION IN PAKISTAN 2.1 Epidemiological and demographic profile Over the past decade, Pakistan has made progress on strengthening key infrastructure for health and social services, as well as increasing public sector health expenditure. The country has experienced positive changes in national health indicators, particularly child survival and reproductive health care. However, malnutrition remains a persistent challenge. Progress on nutrition is impeded by food insecurity and limited dietary diversity, high vulnerability to natural disasters, the effects of climate change, security issues, population growth and rapid urbanization. The nutritional status of Pakistan’s population, especially children under five years old and women of reproductive age (15-49 years old), is largely poor throughout the country, although the burden of malnutrition varies across regions and socioeconomic groups. Progress on improving maternal nutrition in Pakistan has been slow, which has a significant impact on women’s health and well-being, as well as children’s growth and development. Maternal nutrition indicators remain poor and characterized by the triple burden of malnutrition — undernutrition, overweight and obesity, and micronutrient deficiencies. The National Nutrition Survey 2018 found that one in seven women of reproductive age (14.4 per cent) are underweight, reflecting an improvement from 18 per cent in 2011. The prevalence of women being underweight is more pronounced in rural areas compared to urban centres. According to the National