Planned impact and outcomes of the Pakistan Maternal Nutrition Strategy 2022–27 33 Table 8. Maternal nutrition interventions for antenatal care and postnatal care 40 Table 9. Contacts during antenatal care and postnatal care 42 Table 10. Global maternal nutrition indicators for monitoring and evaluation 47 Table 11. Areas of the updated maternal nutrition package 51 Table 12. Protocols for the assessment and management of women nutritionally-at-risk  52 Table 13. Delivery platforms for maternal nutrition interventions 59 Table 14. Responsibilities of provincial government departments and authorities 61 Table 15. Management and accountability 66 6 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN PREFACE Maternal nutrition is the cornerstone of maternal and child health, and needs special focus and attention to prevent stunting and wasting among children. Pregnancy and early childhood, the foundations of proper growth and well-being of a child, depend upon good maternal care and nutrition. Children of malnourished women are more likely to face cognitive impairments, short stature, lower resistance to infections, and a higher risk of disease and death throughout their lives, as well physical disabilities leading towards dire economic consequences. Well-nourished women have safer pregnancies and deliver healthier babies. Maternal nutrition indicators in Pakistan are poor. Women of reproductive age (WRA) bear the triple burden of malnutrition – undernutrition, overweight/obesity and micronutrient deficiencies. The National Nutrition Survey (NNS) 2018 confirms that macro and micronutrient deficiencies are alarming in women of reproductive age – 14.4 per cent were underweight, 24 per cent were overweight and 13.8 per cent were obese. There was a very high prevalence (41.7 per cent) of anaemia (haemoglobin (Hb) levels <11.99gm/dl) in this age group. Vitamin A deficiency (< 0.70 μmol/l) was estimated at 22.4 per cent. These high rates of undernutrition and micronutrient deficiencies among women of reproductive age indicate a vicious cycle of malnutrition in the country. Keeping in mind these statistics and the importance of the nutritional status and well-being of women of reproductive age for outcomes for future generations, the Government of Pakistan accords the utmost importance to the status of women in the country. All policies and strategies, whether in health, nutrition, the workplace environment, safety and security, and the rights of the people are women-centric and equity-based for women. Given the economic and public health implications of malnutrition among women of reproductive age and the important role that maternal nutrition plays in the prevention of stunting and wasting among children,