stores become depleted and a restricted supply of iron to various tissues becomes apparent. Iron deficiency is one of the most common nutritional deficiencies worldwide. A high proportion of women in both industrialised and developing countries become anaemic during pregnancy. Estimates from the J Ayub Med Coll Abbottabad 2011;23(2) http://www.ayubmed.edu.pk/JAMC/23-2/Nuzhat.pdf 37 WHO report that 35–75% (average 56%) of pregnant women in developing countries and 18% of women from industrialised countries are anemic.8 The prevalence rates in south Asian countries have been estimated as follows: Bangladesh 77%, Bhutan 59%, Nepal 65% and Sri Lanka 60%. Maternal mortality in selected developing countries ranges from 407 in (India) to 500 (Pakistan) deaths per 100,000 live births.9 Deficiency of iron in pregnant women limits oxygen delivery to cell resulting in fatigue, poor work performance and decreased immunity. Iron deficiency anaemia early in a pregnancy can double or even triple the risk of having a premature delivery or a low birth weight baby.10 When maternal iron stores are depleted, the foetus cannot accumulate much iron and there is a decrease in foetal iron stores. Studies suggest that behavioural abnormalities occur in children with iron deficiency. These abnormalities are related to changes in the concentration of chemical mediators in the brain11. Iron deficiency in the absence of anaemia is associated with poor performance on Bayley Mental development Index. Development delay in iron deficient infants can be reversed by treatment with iron.12 The objectives of this study were to determine the iron status of the subjects and controls, to compare the iron status of pregnant women of Hazara Division with that of normal healthy non-pregnant women and to determine correlations of TIBC, UIBC and Fe/TIBC% ratio, against serum iron levels. MATERIAL AND METHODS This study was conducted at Faculty of Health Sciences, Hazara University, Mansehra, and Ayub Medical College and Hospital Complex, Abbottabad. It was a descriptive study, conducted for six months from 1st March to 31st August 2006. A total of 120 women were included in the study divided to two groups. The test group comprised of 90 pregnant women at various stages of pregnancy and control group of 30 non-pregnant healthy women. The test group were also classified into three subgroups according to stage of pregnancy, i.e., first, second and third trimester. The control group included women of the same age group as of the test subjects. Sampling was done by convenience (nonprobability) sampling. Particulars