have found that women in South Asia are more sensitive to changes in food availability, often acting as a buffer for their households in food insecure conditions in terms of food allocation within the household. This challenge is compounded by ‘eating order’, where young women often serve themselves, and eat, last.23 Reduced food consumption during pregnancy for fear of delivering a large baby and experiencing a painful labour is also an existing practice.24 A qualitative exploration of the knowledge and perceptions of Lady Health Workers (LHWs) and community members about maternal diets and nutrition has shed light on some of the issues and challenges surrounding local dietary practices in Pakistan.25 Some available nutritious foods are not consumed by pregnant or lactating women due to beliefs passed on by elders. For example, fish, eggs, milk and meat are regarded as ‘hot’ foods that are incorrectly considered harmful for pregnant women. Rice, as a ‘cold’ food, is not served to women for 40 days after giving birth. Male community members and leaders appear disengaged and uncomfortable answering questions about women’s diets during pregnancy, but are more engaged in nutrition support during lactation for the sake of the child’s health, rather than the mother’s.26 Health care access and utilization Reproductive health care coverage is improving in Pakistan. The proportion of deliveries in health facilities increased from 48 per cent in 2012–13 to 66 per cent in 2017–18. However, low coverage in terms of sustained health care visits and nutrition services reveals that many women are unable to access the quality health and nutrition services that they need. Issues which prevent women from accessing optimal nutrition services are linked to broader challenges in terms of access to and the utilization of maternal health services (see Section 3.2 and the discussion of strategic area 2). Overarching challenges include poor physical access to maternal health services, weak delivery platforms to reach women in facilities and at the community level, the low quality of care, and gaps in the health and community workforce.27 A recent iron and folic acid bottleneck analysis illustrates challenges in the delivery of maternal nutrition services and the utilization and uptake of nutrition interventions in Pakistan. Critical bottlenecks exist across the domains of supply, demand, effective coverage and an enabling environment. Supply side issues for iron and folic acid supplementation include inconsistent supply, ‘stock outs’, procedural delays, inefficient human resources with suboptimal knowledge