They indicate the widespread adoption of important elements of the MDSR system and also highlight the lack of progress towards full implementation in numerous countries. The disparity between the percentage of countries with a national policy to review all maternal deaths (85%) and those with a national maternal death review committee that met at least biannually (46%) suggests a gap between policy and practice in some countries. Maternal death reviews have been operating in many developed countries for decades, and are in different stages of planning or implementation in middle and lowincome countries. The Philippines reported a relatively smooth transition to MDSR after 2013, largely due to its established system of maternal death reporting and review (MDRR)2. A significant change was the new emphasis on the response element of MDSR. Although the benefits of wellconducted reviews are clear, poorly conducted ones can be damaging. Without careful planning, preparation and staff training their hasty implementation can result in failure, which not only penalises mothers and babies through a lack of improvement but also results in a decline in professional support. This is especially the case if a culture of blame and punishment exists. This can lead to fear and demoralisation as well as to a lack of transparency, without which it is impossible to determine the real lessons 2. Dy-Recidoro Z. From maternal death reporting and review (MDRR) to maternal death surveillance and response: the Philippines expe rience. First published in the April 2014 edition of the MDSR Action Network newsletter. http://www.who.int/maternal_child_ adolescent/epidemiology/maternaldeath-surveillance/case-studies/philippines/en/ 10 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination that need to be learnt and acted upon. As the recent report into improving the safety in the National Health Service (NHS) in England says ‘fear is toxic to both safety and improvement.’3 Evidence for a blame culture has emerged in several instances. The lack of a legal framework was noted as a factor in Kenya.4 According to studies from Moldova, Kenya and Malawi, the previously used system of investigating maternal deaths ‘instilled fear’ in the country’s health professionals, who were afraid of being prosecuted for perceived mistakes.5 A study from Malaysia concludes that it is essential for the MDR process to be non-punitive and to avoid “naming, blaming or shaming.”6 The findings of the studies described above were reflected in the MDSR baseline survey findings and case studies, which also indicated that some countries were