and completeness of data MDF 3 – the community data tool (appendix 3) should be used by trained collectors who are aware of both medical and non medical causes of death. Data collection team members should also be aware from the outset of the extreme care and diplomacy needed in discussing maternal or perinatal deaths in the community, especially with close relatives. The aim is to find out the respondent’s personal opinion on the major factors contributing to the death which could have been avoided. The team will endeavor to gather the data two weeks after the death (but no later than 6 weeks). Waiting at least 2 weeks gives mourning time for the bereaved family, but not more than 6 weeks ensures that facts surrounding the death can still be recalled by family members. Any medical information that can be located (e.g. antenatal care cards, records of hospitalization prior to her death, etc) should also be collected to complement information collected through community MDF 3. 1.17. Barriers to community data collection The community data collection team members may encounter a number of barriers during the community interviews: • Relatives, for example, may accept the death as ‘God’s will’ and be reluctant to talk about it in any other terms, particularly if there is superstition about discussing death. • There could be an unwillingness to talk about abortion-related deaths, especially if abortion is illegal or prohibited for religious reasons. • Some respondents may feel responsible for the tragedy, such as the TBA who may have delayed referring the woman, or the husband who could not afford to pay for transport. They may be hesitant to provide information out of guilt or fear of blame. Efforts must be made by data collectors to reassure them that the intention of collecting the data is NOT to blame or punish them. 1.18. Review by the Committee Review of the community data is done by the district committee. This process follows a similar procedure to the facility review and utilizes the same tools: the Committee Worksheet (appendix 4), the Action Plan Template (appendix 5) and MDF 4the Summary Form for the Province (see section 2 above). The district committee reviews the information to determine the causes of death and categorize the death as “Avoidable” or “Unavoidable” and make the necessary recommendations to prevent future deaths. 23 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance