have comprehensively researched the idea of treating NAID with iron to improve the outcome of mother and offspring. Studies on NAID suggests a variety of possible benefits of iron supplementation on infant birth, educational attainment, infant development and maternal fatigue.25 There is lack of robust evidence that treatment of NAID will result in significant benefit to mother and fetus in terms of prevention of low birth weight. The clinical consequences of NAID in pregnancy are largely unknown and there is a need to determine through research if there is a need for a national screening program for early detection and intervention.26 There is multidisciplinary willingness to put this hypothesis to test in a robust trial.27 All woman who book themselves at antenatal hospitals if screened with a serum ferritin test can be offered therapeutic doses of iron, which can lead to prevention of maternal and fetal complications of iron deficiency. The rationale of this study is to observe the outcome of NAID in pregnant woman in terms of hemoglobin at 36 weeks’ gestation in addition to secondary outcomes including birth weight, preterm birth, development of preeclampsia in the mother, multidimensional fatigue inventory (MFI), breast feeding initiation, blood transfusion, fetal cord blood ferritin and hemoglobin. It is aimed at the hypothesis that early screening and treatment of iron-depleted non-anemic women will reduce the risk of developing maternal anemia and prevent complications like low birth weight or small according to their gestational age in babies. This is the first trial of its kind in Pakistan. Hypothesis: The NAID women who are given therapeutic doses of IV iron will more often have normal maternal haemoglobin at term and normal birth weight of the baby as compared to the NAID women who are given usual care. Trial design: It is a parallel, two-arm (interventioncontrol) and double blind (care providers and outcome Pak J Med Sci January February 2023 Vol. 39 No. 1 www.pjms.org.pk 295 assessors both blind) randomised controlled trial of IV Iron intervention provided to NAID women to replenish their iron stores compared with usual care with prophylactic oral iron. Eligible participants are randomized to the intervention and usual care groups. A 600 sample size will be recruited from three centers. All patients will be followed up till delivery. Post randomisation evaluation will be done at 28 and 36 weeks regarding maternal hemoglobin, serum ferritin, MFI scoring, obstetrical scan for fetal parameters, blood