care includes ANC, assistance at delivery, and postnatal care from skilled providers. Overall, 57% of live births or stillbirths received complete maternity care, while 5% received none of the three maternal health services. Births to women with higher education (83%) are more likely to receive complete maternity care than births to women with no education (43%). Postnatal Care by Household Wealth Among ever-married women age 15-49 with a live birth or stillbirth in the 2 years before the survey, percent who received postnatal care from a skilled provider Poorest 36 Second Middle 48 Fourth 58 75 Highest Wealthiest 82 Lowest NOTE: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Skilled Assistance during ANC, Delivery, and Postnatal Care by Education Percent of most recent live births or stillbirths in the 3 years before the survey assisted by a skilled provider 43 Primary Middle 63 Secondary 71 79 Higher 83 No education NOTE: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Page 8 2019 Pakistan Maternal Mortality Survey Maternal Morbidities Morbidities during Pregnancy , Delivery, or the Postpartum Period Maternal health complications include any health problems reported by ever-married women during pregnancy, during childbirth, or within 42 days of the end of the pregnancy. The most common complications women reported during pregnancy were a feeling of extreme weakness (58%), body aches (44%), and lower abdominal pain and severe headache (42% each). Regionally, health complications vary. More than one-third of women in Punjab reported severe anaemia, compared to 24% of women in Balochistan. About 1 in 5 women in Punjab and Balochistan reported high blood pressure. Maternal health complications and morbidities were more common during pregnancy than during delivery. The most common complications during delivery were prolonged labour pains (12%), laceration in the vagina (9%), the baby not breathing and breech presentation of the baby (6% each). Lacerations in the vagina are twice as common in urban areas as rural areas (13% versus 7%). Nearly 1 in 4 women experienced prolonged labour pains in Balochistan. Seven percent of deliveries in Sindh and 4% in Punjab had a premature baby. Women self-reported health complications within the first 40 days after delivery. A feeling of extreme weakness (48%), pallor (33%), and fever (32%) were the most common complications reported during the postpartum period. Other conditions were diagnosed by health care providers. Women were most likely to be informed by health providers about high blood pressure