a statistical analysis plan prepared before the outcome data per group are unblinded. Comparison of outcome will be tested by chi-square and student’s t-test. P value of <0.05 will be significant. Data Monitoring: Trial steering committee with an independent chair and membership including a patient representative will oversee the study. Data monitoring committee will perform confidential interim analyses, which may be used to determine if an effect is observed and if the study should continue to its planned sample size. Any adverse reaction to IV Iron or blood transfusion will be noted and entered in specific transfusion reaction registers in wards according to hospital protocol. Independent data monitoring committee will systematically review all trial related activities, data entry, will assess compliance with regulatory requirements for clinical trial protocol and clinical quality management plan by principal investigator and all sites support personnels and audit trial quarterly to identify potential risks and help to ensure that compliance issues do not jeopardize the trial. Patient and public involvement: A lay patient representative (patient with lived experience) has been included in the trial steering committee. The representative has given advice on the protocol and consent procedures submitted for ethics committee approval and will give oversight to the study during its conduct. Ethics and Dissemination: The study will tell us whether by screening serum ferritin early in nonanemic pregnant women and replenishing their iron stores will reduce the incidence of anemia in pregnant women, improve birthweight and preventing complications. Ethics Approval: Ethics approval has been granted by institutional review board of Services Institute of Medical Science, Lahore: IRB/2019/599/SIMS (dated 05 December 2019), Allama Iqbal Medical College, Lahore: 54th/ERB (dated 17 December 2019) and Fatima Jinnah Medical University, Lahore; 34-Res-ProposalGynae-1/ERC (dated 29 October 2020). Appendix No.1. Consent: Informed consent will be taken by the investigators conducting the trial in outpatient departments on specially designed consent proformas. Appendix No.2 Declaration of Interest: None. Access to Data: Data monitoring team, Trial Technology team will be given access to the data. Dissemination Policy: Trial findings will be published in peer reviewed journals and propagated in different conference meetings, providing much needed evidence to inform clinical and public health actions in this area. Dissemination will also be done through amendments in ward protocols. Protocol prepared according to Spirit checklist (https://www.spirit-statement.org/)28 Acknowledgements: Steering committee has an independent chair Prof Samia Malik (Gynaecologist), one expert member Prof Faiza Bashir (hematologist) and Ms.