6 Record’s unique identifier (year-province code –districtsite-maternal death rank) 7 Maternal death place (community, health facility, district hospital, referral hospital or private hospital, on the way to a facility) 8 Age (in years) of the deceased 9 Gravida: how many times was the deceased pregnant? 10 Parity: how many times did the deceased deliver a baby of 28 weeks, dead or alive? 11 Time of death (specify: during pregnancy, during delivery, during the immediate post partum period, long after delivery, abortion, ectopic). 12 If abortion: was it spontaneous or induced? Maternal Death History and Risk Factors 13 Was the deceased receiving any antenatal care? (Yes or No) 14 Did she have Malaria? (Yes or No) 15 Did she have Hypertension? (Yes or No) 16 Did she have Anaemia? (Yes or No) 17 Did she have Abnormal Lie? (Yes or No) 18 Did she undergo any previous Caesarean Section? (Yes or No) 19 What was her HIV ,hepatitis ,Status? (+, – or Unknown) Delivery, Puerperium and Neonatal Information 20 How long (hours) was the duration of labor? 21 What type of delivery was it? (choose from 1 = vaginal non assisted, 2 = vaginal assisted (vacuum or forceps), 3 = caesarean section 56 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination 22 What was the baby’s status at birth (Alive or Stillborn) 23 In case of live birth, was the baby still alive within 28 days of birth? (choose 1 = still alive, 2= neonatal death, 3= died beyond 28 days of age) 24 Was the deceased referred to any health facility or hospital? (Yes, No, or Don’t Know) If yes, how long did it take to get there? (hours) 25 Did the deceased receive any medical care or obstetric/surgical interventions for what led to her death? (Yes, No, or Don’t Know) If yes, specify where and the treatment received* 26 Primary ( underlying ) Cause of the Maternal Death 27 Secondary Cause of the Maternal Death 28 Analysis and Interpretation of the information collected so far (investigators opinion on this death) 29 Remarks 30 Maternal Death Notification Date (day/month/year) * Treatment Received: I.V. Fluids; Plasma; Blood Transfusion; Antibiotics; Oxytocin; Anti-seizure drugs; Oxygen; Anti-malarial drugs; Surgery; Manual removal of placenta; Manual intra uterine aspiration; Curettage; Laparotomy; Hysterectomy; Instrumental Delivery (Forceps, Vacuum); Caesarean section; Anesthesia (general, spinal, epidural , local) Definitions: Gravida: The number of times the woman was