newborn health, underscoring the critical necessity of skilled healthcare professionals attending all births. Timely intervention and care from trained professionals can significantly impact the survival outcomes for both mothers and newborns.19 Once women decide to seek care, there is usually much delay in reaching healthcare facility which can provide appropriate care representing second delay. Lack of funds, non-availability of transport and infrastructure are prime reasons.20,21 Third delay in our study has been reported to be around 12% however it is much higher (96.8%) in studies from Malawi and Egypt.8,22 Lack of proper care at healthcare facility due to non-availability of required resources, inadequate blood transfusion services, dearth of qualified personals and equipment are most important reasons for deaths despite reaching a facility. Maternal mortality reduction is a great challenge for government to meet SGD target. There is a great disparity in access between rural and urban populations, with the majority of Pakistan’s citizens residing in rural regions where healthcare infrastructure is sparse.23 To address these challenges, it is imperative for governments and organizations to prioritize funding allocations, particularly in rural areas, to train more qualified healthcare professionals, establish additional healthcare facilities, and raise awareness about the importance of antenatal, delivery, and postpartum care. Limitations: Since we collected data from a tertiary care hospital in Punjab, this may limit its generalizability to other provinces of Pakistan due to different healthcare systems. Our study highlighted trends in maternal mortality but being a cross-sectional study, it may not provide direct insights into the effectiveness of specific interventions aimed at reducing maternal mortality rates. Future research should explore this area. CONCLUSION Reduction in maternal mortality is a great challenge for developing countries like Pakistan. Changing maternal health dynamics over the twelve-year period emphasizes the need for continuous monitoring and targeted interventions to sustain and improve maternal health outcomes at the hospitals. Conflict of interest: None. Funding: None. REFERENCES 1. Trends in maternal mortality 2000 to 2020: Estimates by WHO, UNICEF, UNFPA, World Bank Group and UNDESA/Population Division [Internet]. World Health Organization; [Accessed on Apr 3rd 2024]. Available from: https://www.who.int/publications-detail-redirect/9789240068759 2. Trends in maternal mortality: 2000 to 2017 [Internet]. Accessed on Apr 3rd 2024.Available from: https://www.unfpa.org/featured-publication/trendsmaternal-mortality-2000-2017 3. NIPS P. Pakistan Maternal Mortality Survey 2019Key Indicators Report. 2019. 4. World Health Organization. World health statistics 2016: monitoring health for the SDGs sustainable development goals. Geneva: World Health Organization; 2016. 5. Lawrence ER, Klein TJ, Beyuo TK.