includes a renewed focus on promoting evidence-based international best practices. It calls for the integration of maternal nutrition and breastfeeding support strategies within primary care programmes, while urging the integration of parallel initiatives including the Maternal, Neonatal and Child Health (MNCH) Programme, the Expanded Programme for Immunization (EPI), programmes on malaria and programmes on nutrition. The Pakistan Multi-sectoral Nutrition Strategy calls for a set of nutrition-specific interventions related to maternal nutrition, as well as the development of an ‘essential nutrition service delivery package’ that should be integrated with health service delivery. While Pakistan does not have specific guidance on maternal nutrition in the preconception period (before pregnancy), the recently developed Pakistan Adolescent Nutrition Strategy (PANS) provides direction for improving adolescent nutrition. It encompasses a core package of nutrition-specific interventions delivered through the health sector (healthy eating, nutrient supplementation, behaviour change for health and risk avoidance, and hygiene and sanitation), paired with nutritionsensitive interventions in non-health sectors. Pakistan’s Infant and Young Child Feeding (IYCF) Strategy 2016–2020 recognizes the importance of improving maternal nutrition during the postpartum period (after childbirth). It particularly acknowledges the link between the early initiation of breastfeeding and exclusive breastfeeding, on the one hand, and reduced postpartum haemorrhage and the reduced risk of breast and ovarian cancer, on the other. The strategy also advocates for skilled nutrition counselling to be provided to mothers through the Lady Health Worker Programme, in addition to introducing a parental education package through the education sector that focuses on maternal nutrition and infant and young child feeding. 2.4 Programme context All of Pakistan’s provinces and regions have a multi-sectoral or inter-sectoral nutrition strategy in place following the development of the Pakistan Integrated Nutrition Strategy (PINS) 2011, the predecessor of the Pakistan Multi-sectoral Nutrition Strategy 2018–2025. All of the country’s provinces and regions also have a reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health and nutrition strategy for 2016–2020 that stems from the National Vision for Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health and Nutrition 2016–2025. One province also has a stunting reduction framework in place as its guiding framework for nutrition. 28 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN The context of maternal nutrition programming within the health sector and through a multi-sectoral approach differs across Pakistan’s provinces. Maternal nutrition programming is implemented and funded by government initiatives, as well as by projects undertaken by donors and development partners. The degree of integration of maternal nutrition