multiple micronutrient supplements during pregnancy. In the wake of rigorous research, WHO recommends antenatal multiple micronutrient supplements containing 13–15 micronutrients, which include iron and folic acid. Global evidence has concluded that antenatal multiple micronutrient supplementation is superior to iron and folic acid supplementation in terms of improving birth outcomes. It also has equivalent benefits for preventing maternal anaemia. Moreover, recent analyses have shown that multiple micronutrient supplementation is more cost-effective than existing iron and folic acid programmes in lowand middleincome countries for achieving positive health outcomes. Pakistan will be transitioning from iron and folic acid to multiple micronutrient supplementation due to the multiple micronutrient deficiencies prevalent in Pakistan, as well as evidence that transitioning from iron and folic acid to multiple micronutrient supplementation would be cost-effective. For instance, this transition will avert an estimated 2,379,157 disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) over a 10-year period, prevent 29,862 additional child deaths and yield benefits that are 550 times greater than the costs of additional investments in multiple micronutrient supplementation over a decade). Source: Nutrition International, ‘Pakistan: Cost-effectiveness of transitioning from iron and folic acid to multiple micronutrient supplementation for pregnancy’, Policy brief, 2019. Alongside a comprehensive package, guidelines for maternal micronutrient supplementation need to be updated, involving the transition from iron and folic acid to multiple micronutrient supplementation and the inclusion of calcium. Protocols will be developed for the management of nutritional risks – such as women being underweight, overweight or anaemic – and for the provision of targeted balanced energy and protein. Given the high prevalence of anaemia in Pakistan, guidelines should be developed for the prevention and control of anaemia, with protocols for the management of moderate and severe anaemia. Early antenatal care attendance will also be encouraged, as women tend to start antenatal care after the first trimester of pregnancy. Antenatal care needs to be expanded in line with WHO’s recommendations, increasing from four focused antenatal care visits to eight antenatal care contacts using diversified contact points. This expansion will provide opportunities for more frequent nutrition-related care and support. As postnatal care attendance in Pakistan is exceptionally low, it should be increased to WHO’s recommended number of four postnatal care contacts in the first six weeks postpartum. Beyond these contacts, maternal nutrition interventions should also be linked with routine child health services during the lactation period for up to two years. Contact points for antenatal and postnatal care are outlined