39 Lowest NOTE: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Page 10 2019 Pakistan Maternal Mortality Survey Treatment for Complications Treatment during Pregnancy The most common complications during pregnancy identified by health care providers for which women received treatement include anaemia (27%), severe nausea and vomiting during pregnancy (19%), and high blood pressure (15%). Treatment for anaemia ranges from a low of 18% in Balochistan to a high of 31% in Punjab. Treatment for severe nausea and vomiting during pregnancy was highest in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (23%) and lowest in Balochistan (10%). Among ever-married women who received ANC for a pregnancy in the 3 years before the survey, 3 in 4 received ANC from a private facility, while 1 in 3 received care from a public facility. Nationally, 9% of women who experienced complications during pregnancy did not receive any antenatal care. ANC treatment among pregnant women with complications was especially rare in Balochistan, where 22% of women with complications did not receive any ANC. Treatment for Maternal Health Complications Percent of last live births, stillbirths, miscarriages, and abortions in the 3 years before the survey for which women were informed of complications by a health |care provider and received treatment Anaemia 27 19 15 4 3 NOTE: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Severe nausea & vomiting during pregnancy High blood pressure Fever Urinary tract infection © 2007 Asad Zaidi, UNFPA Pregnancy Complications among Women with no ANC by Region Percent of ever-married women age 15-49 with a pregnancy in the 3 years before the survey who reported pregnancy complications and did NOT receive ANC NOTE: Total excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan Pakistan 9 Punjab Sindh 5 9 16 22 5 16 KP Balochistan AJK GB Page 11 2019 Pakistan Maternal Mortality Survey Complications during Delivery More than 8 in 10 women who reported delivery complications for the most recent live birth or stillbirth were assisted by a skilled provider. Urban women are more likely to receive care for delivery complications from a skilled provider than rural women (92% versus 74%). Skilled assistance during delivery complications was lowest in Balochistan (58%) and highest in Punjab (82%). Women with a higher education (97%) are more likely than women with no education (68%) to receive care for delivery complications from a skilled provider. Skilled assistance during delivery complications also increases with household wealth, from 55% in