is reasonable to begin with a phased-in approach to ensure the process can be successfully established and then expanded. At the outset Pakistan has the benefit of being able to incorporate lessons learned from other country’s attempts to eliminate preventable maternal and perinatal mortality. The key message in MPDSR is “think big, start small and grow slowly.” In some countries progress suffered when nascent systems where unprepared to properly handle a high volume of cases, lack of adequate training of data collectors (especially in the community), lack of adequate training of reviewers, and inadequate response to recommendations. Given that newborn deaths are a much more frequent occurrence and therefore much more difficult and labour intensive to track and review, it is realistic and advisable to begin with maternal deaths (MDSR) only or with maternal deaths plus a sample of neonatal deaths. The ideal place to begin is with perinatal deaths that occur along with a maternal death. This approach makes sense because women and their babies share the same period of highest risk, often with the same health workers present and perinatal deaths that occur with maternal death will be the easiest to identify. The tools included in the appendix of this guideline are designed for that strategy. Importantly, reducing maternal mortality is in itself a crucial element of any effort to reduce neonatal mortality. Evidence shows that strategies that benefit the mother will also save the lives of babies as the underlying causes of mortality are so entwined. Close to onequarter of all under five deaths are due to intrapartum and immediate post-partum deaths or still births which will reduce automatically as access to and quality of antenatal and emergency obstetric care improve. It is estimated that an elimination of preventable maternal mortality would coincide with a 30 to 40% reduction in neonatal mortality. Finally, the success of MPDSR depends upon active involvement of a broad range of stakeholders. The necessity of support from health-care providers (obstetricians, other clinicians, LHWs, midwives and nurses) is fairly obvious, particularly for understanding and identifying solutions for the problems that contribute to 23. The national update was prepared and reviewed Dr Wangui Muthigani, Program ManagerMaternal and Newborn Health at Ministry of Health in Kenya. The update for Bungoma county was developed based on feedback from Mr Peter Ken Kaimenyi, Maternal and Newborn Health Technic al Advisor at MANI Project funded by UK Aid.