Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) MONITORING AND EVALUATION In order to achieve the goals and objectives of MPDSR a plan is needed for implementation. Note: Implementation of MPDSR will vary among provinces depending on the types of maternal mortality notification and review guidelines, processes, and systems already in place, if any. The exact steps will depend on the situation in each province; for instance, some provinces may prefer to start in urban areas, whereas others may prefer to start with a group of districts or even in a sample of communities. What follows is a general outline based on the WHO MDSR Technical Guide, lessons learned from other countries, and a preliminary situation analysis of the situation in Pakistan. 1.24. Situation Analysis The decision to select a point of entry should be based on situational analysis at the national level and in each province, or a rapid assessment of the existing setup that can accommodate MPDSR. The current status of each of the MPDSR components in each province (identification and notification, review, analysis and recommendations, response, dissemination and reports, monitoring and evaluation) should be assessed and a plan created to develop those components that are absent, strengthen those that are already established, and expand the system over time to achieve complete coverage. Under the stewardship of the M/o NHR&C and provincial departments of health, roles and responsibilities of various departments and ministries should be identified. Understanding the linkages and interfaces between ministries and their interaction with the private sector is critical to the development of multi-sectoral coordination and response. Assembling and examining all relevant, available data or other sources of information (such as demographic health surveys) on maternal events and health-care services in the proposed surveillance areas is useful. Types of information that could be helpful include the approximate number of deliveries and maternal and perinatal deaths, their distribution by place of occurrence (home; health centre; public, private, or other type of hospital including level), and estimates of distribution of deaths by cause. These resources will assist in the analysis phase. Key questions include: • What components of MPDSR are already in place and where? • Is maternal death a notifiable event? • What percentage of deaths is estimated to be notified from health facilities and from the community? 28 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination • If more than one system