and the use of information, based on the implementation plans and the Maternal Nutrition Strategy’s results framework (see Annex 1). Periodic evaluations will also be needed to assess progress towards the strategy’s goal and objectives over its five-year duration. Stakeholders responsible for accountability and the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination will determine the periodicity of these evaluations. 5.2 Monitoring and evaluation indicators The strategy’s process (input/activity and output) indicators will be monitored against the indicators outlined in federal and provincial implementation plan matrices. These are predominately input and activity-based indicators which focus on legislation and regulations, coordination and management, resource allocations, human resource capacity, supply, delivery, quality and social and behaviour change communication. Output indicators centre on access to and the coverage of interventions, such as health care utilization (antenatal care and postnatal care attendance, Lady Health Worker coverage and the services they provide, the provision of micronutrients and the provision of nutrition counselling topics, among others) and knowledge factors. Strategy outcome and impact indicators Outcomes in terms of the uptake and appropriate use of interventions should also be assessed. These include the consumption of micronutrients, deworming and adherence to optimal nutrition practices. Outcome-level (impact) indicators for the Maternal Nutrition Strategy are listed in Table 7 (see Chapter 3, above). These include women who are underweight, overweight, suffer from obesity, have anaemia, iron and folic acid consumption and the consumption of multiple micronutrient supplements (two intervention uptake indicators), and low birth weight. Management indicators: Accountability To ensure accountability for results at the federal and provincial levels, management indicators have been identified based on global/regional guidance, and federal and provincial focus areas. These management indicators should be reviewed annually. 66 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN Table 15. Management and accountability Area Planned In progress No Yes Legislation, guidelines and resources Maternal nutrition priorities are integrated in national and provincial sectoral policies Maternity protection laws or regulations are enacted Updated guidelines and protocols for maternal nutrition are developed Plans are made operational with appropriate resource allocations from required funding mechanisms Social and behaviour change communication (SBCC) plan and associated materials are developed (for the integration of maternal nutrition with maternal, newborn and child health (MNCH) and maternal, infant, young child and adolescent nutrition (MIYCAN) Coordination mechanisms to guide and monitor plans National and provincial chapters of the Maternal, Infant, Young Child and Adolescent Nutrition Technical Advisory Group (MIYCAN TAG),