or is it just a sporadic finding? There are anecdotal accounts that anemia is on the increase. Of other medical disorders, hepatitis is also a significant cause accounting for between 2.5 to 9.7% of the deaths. Data on the type of hepatitis are not available, though it is known that hepatitis E during pregnancy is associated with a high maternal mortality4. Community data reveals that more than half of the deaths were due to hemorrhage (52.9%). The high proportion of deaths due to hemorrhage among women who die in the community and also among those who died before reaching hospitals (63%) indicates the urgent need for help in cases that are bleeding. Immediate help if not forth coming kills the women5. Misoprostol, an essential lifesaving drug, can be used for both prevention and treatment of postpartum hemorrhage. What do the continuing high MMR figures from the hospitals indicate? Is it that the proportion of women who are dying has now increased? Is it that the proportion of deaths has decreased in the community and increased in the hospitals? Is it that as a result of greater awareness of pregnancy related complications by both the community and the health care providers, and more facilities for transport, a greater number of women are now reaching hospitals but not in time to be saved? Is it that sub-standard care is given to women who come with complications to the hospitals? Is it that more accurate data is now being collected by the hospitals? Unfortunately, most of these questions cannot be answered as the trend in the number of deaths in the community is not known. In Pakistan over 80% of the deliveries are still taking place at home, majority of them being conducted by the traditional birth attendants (TBAs). A large number of these TBAs, about 40,000 to 50,000, have undergone training under one of the many initiatives for safe motherhood taken by the Government6. The TBAs are however not supervised in their work and there is no back up support in time of need. A review of TBA training and utilization of programs in 70 countries over the past three decades shows that there are limited examples of their successful utilization. In countries where the TBA’s have been adequately supervised the strategy has shown some positive results. In other words for effective functioning, TBAs require constant supervision, more than other health care