madrassas as service delivery platforms for nutrition interventions. These aspects are covered by the Pakistan Adolescent Nutrition Strategy. For specific maternal nutrition needs, the education sector will facilitate and ensure that curricula for medical and nursing students at the undergraduate and graduate levels include adequate maternal nutrition topics and training, as they will be future health care providers in maternal and child health platforms. The education sector will also forge links with the health sector to ensure that educational materials and information, education and communication materials for frontline workers are comprehensive and streamlined with the materials used for health care providers. In addition, the education sector and academic institutions have opportunities to conduct implementation research on maternal nutrition through health sector programmes. This is important for generating evidence to guide programme improvements. Sub-strategy 2.3. Strengthen preparedness and response for maternal nutrition in disaster-prone districts and emergency situations Disasters take a severe toll on Pakistan’s development agenda, disrupting promotive, preventative and life-saving health and nutrition services. In disaster-prone districts – that is, districts affected by natural disasters, shocks or conflict – during potential or current emergencies, maternal malnutrition is exacerbated by a lack of social protection, extreme poverty, displacement and poor access to health services. The current COVID-19 pandemic and potential future pandemics may limit the availability of and access to essential nutrition services for women.42 National and provincial capacities to respond to disasters have improved over the years. However, Pakistan’s disaster risk management system needs a greater focus on mitigating risks through riskinformed planning that addresses the unique needs of women. Global guidance for maternal nutrition in emergencies calls for rapid nutrition and food security assessments at different stages of crisis, with the inclusion of maternal nutrition indicators – such as malnutrition, diet and care, health, and food insecurity, among others – for timely programme improvement. Guidance also recommends that women who are pregnant and breastfeeding are prioritized for emergency interventions, including access to food, nutrition services, drinking water, sanitation facilities and social protection.43 For capacity development at the provincial and district levels, disaster risk reduction (DRR) plans will be strengthened by including maternal nutrition needs in the health sector response. A continuous supply chain for commodities and supplies for the delivery of maternal nutrition interventions 42 World Food Programme, United Nations Children’s Fund, Global Nutrition Cluster (GNC) and Global Technical Assistance Mechanism for Nutrition (GTAM), ‘Protecting Maternal Diets and