or outpatient department). The facility review process may be complemented by data collected at community level on MDF 3 (appendix 3) to provide more indepth information. When used in combination facility based death reviews and community data reconstruct the whole story surrounding the woman’s death. (The above two processes can be done independently but both will feed into the 26. Summary writers should have a strong medical background, particularly concerning pregnancy and neonatal health issues, as well as an appreciation of the roles medical and nonmedical factors may play in maternal deaths. An experienced WMO, Trainee PG or senior obstetrical nurse is the most appropriate person to perform this task. 20 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination national level efforts). This may be recommended by the review committee, and may be undertaken for all or a sample facility deaths. Importantly, in situations where a woman is brought to the facility in critical condition (death on arrival) a dual investigation is necessary to understand her journey through the community and then the specific quality of care and delay issues impacting her treatment in the hospital. These cases should be recorded in the registry with minimal essential information (name of deceased, husband’s name, full address, CNIC and contact number of relatives) to enable further tracking and investigation at community level. A rapid history can be taken to ascertain whether it is a maternal death and its most probable cause. Every effort should be made to follow these deaths to the community and data collected via the community tool. In this protocol the term ‘review’ is used in preference to audit. This is because audit is often described as a systematic process of improving quality through reviewing the care provided against evidence-based criteria. These may include national or local clinical standards and guidelines, which are still not used routinely in many parts of Pakistan. This means that in the majority of the reviews carried out to date the care provided was reviewed against what was considered by local experts to be acceptable in the specific circumstances. One of the positive outcomes of reviews, however, is the production of guidelines that will lead to the opportunity to conduct comprehensive clinical audits in future. Facilities with advanced review systems and those with fewer maternal deaths can proceed to do individual case reviews of severe morbidity (“near miss”), and criterion-based clinical