the commonest cause of anemia, found among 90% of the anemic women. Our finding conforms to several studies where iron deficiency has been reported to be the most common nutritional deficiency and cause of anemia during pregnancy. The problem of iron deficiency may stem from a variety of factors. For instance, dietary deficiency and poor iron absorption due to diets high in phytates or inflammatory bowel disease. Additionally, there is increased iron demand during pregnancy, gynecological diseases associated with heavy blood loss, low iron body stores before pregnancy, worm infestations, infections, or following blood donation.13 Pregnancy anemia can arise due to factors other than insufficient iron levels. These factors contain parasitic infestations, such as malaria, hookworm infections, and schistosomiasis, as well as deficiencies in essential micronutrients like folic acid, vitamin A, and vitamin B12. Additionally, genetically inherited conditions like thalassemia, sickle cell disease, and glucose-6phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD) deficiency can contribute to anemia. Anemia can also be caused by bone marrow diseases that inhibit the production of red blood cells, chronic renal failure, rheumatoid arthritis, and tuberculosis. HELLP syndrome is a condition characterized by hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes, and low platelet count, which can occur during the late stages of pregnancy or after childbirth. Pregnancyinduced hypertension (PIH) may be an underlying factor in the development of this syndrome.14 In this study the highest frequency of pregnancy anemia was found among women in their third trimester of pregnancy. Several published studies have reported higher frequency of anemia in the second and third trimester of pregnancy. With advancing gestational age, there is a concomitant increase in plasma volume and hence anemia may manifest more clearly.15, 16 In this study the frequency of pregnancy anemia was higher among multiparous than nulliparous women. The majority of the anemic women were having frequent pregnancies at small intervals. Published studies have reported frequent anemia among women with previous 2-4 living issues. With repeated pregnancies, the body stores of iron are depleted. Our finding conforms to several published studies.17-19 Full blood count, red cell indices and RBC’s morphology constitute the first line tests for investigating anemia in pregnancy. The cut off values of Hb are checked. These should be advised at the booking visit as well as at 28 weeks. 20, 21 As iron deficiency is very common among our population. All child bearing age, and especially pregnant women, should be motivated to ensure intake of iron rich