the positive outcomes of reviews, however, is the production of guidelines that will lead to the opportunity to conduct comprehensive clinical audits in future. Facilities with advanced review systems and those with fewer maternal deaths can proceed to do individual case reviews of severe morbidity (“near miss”), and criterion-based clinical audit (CBCA) to improve the quality of care. A criterion based audit is carried out as a cycle of a systematic process of establishing best practice, measuring care against standards of care or criteria, taking action to improve care, and monitoring to sustain improvement. The spiral suggests that as the process continues, each cycle aspires to a higher level of quality. 21 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) COMMUNITY REVIEWS Community-based maternal and perinatal death reviews (sometimes referred to as verbal autopsies) are a method of determining the medical causes of death that occur outside a facility as well as the personal, family, or community factors that may have contributed to the death. Given the high proportion of home deliveries in rural parts of Pakistan, a substantial proportion of maternal and perinatal deaths are likely to occur at home/in the community. Therefore processes for reviews at community level need to be set up and standardized. The process for reviews of community based deaths is outlined below. 1.15. Identification, Notification and Registration The first step in identifying maternal deaths in the community is to assess all deaths in WRAs which requires interviewing the family and other community informants. It is important to understand that identifying and reporting a maternal or perinatal death at the community level can be done by any informant. This could be the lady health worker, community health workers, village or community midwives, traditional birth attendants, community leaders, religious leaders or Imam Masjid, secretary union councils; vaccinators, or even lay persons willing to take over the reporting role. However, the second step: assessing whether it is a probable maternal death and then collecting data on MDF 3 the community data tool (appendix 3) can only be done by properly trained personnel. The third step: reviewing the death to assign a cause, assess avoidability/substandard care, etc. requires special expertise and therefore must be done by the district MPDSR committee (not by LHWs, CMWs etc, even if they are trained to collect the data). Some suspected maternal death cases will be obvious (e.g. the woman