2. Negative 3. Not done 16 HIV 1. Positive 2. Negative 3. Not done 17 Rubella 1. Positive 2. Negative 3. Not done J. Delivery perpurium and neonatal information 1 Date of delivery 2 Place of delivery 1 Home 2. On transit 3. H/post 4. H/center 5. Hospital 6. Clinic 3 If delivered, what is the outcome? 1. Live birth 2. Stillbirth 4 If yes, duration of labour 5 Was a partogram used? Yes No Not applicable 6 Time Since ruptured membranes 7 Estimated gestational age at delivery 8 Was active management of the third stage of labour done? Yes No 9 If she has delivered, what was the mode of delivery? 1. Spontaneous vaginal delivery, 2. Operative vaginal delivery (vacuum or forceps) 3. Destructive vaginal delivery for dead fetal outcome 4. Operative Abdominal delivery (caesarean section or Hysterectomy) 10 Intrapartum events (Tick ALL that apply) Intrapartum hemorrhage Intrapartum infection Pre-eclapmsia/ Eclampsia Obstructed labour 44 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination 11 Comments on labour and delivery 12 Postpartum events (Tick ALL that apply) Retained Placenta Postpartum hemorrhage Postpartum infection Pre-eclapmsia/ Eclampsia 3 Intrapartum (Tick ALL that apply) Instrumental delivery Symphysiotomy Cesarean Hysterectomy Transfusion Magnesium Sulphate Antiobitics 4 Postpartum ( Tick ALL that apply) Evacuation Laprotomy Hysteretomy Hysterectomy Transfusion Magnisium Sulphate Antibiotics Oxytocin Misoprostol 5 Other Interventions General Anesthesia Epidural Spinal Local ICU Ventilation Invasive mentoring 6 Other interventions: M. Cause of death 1 Case Summary (supply a short summary of the events surrounding the death): N. Barriers to Care and Remedial Factors 1 Did women or family recognize there was a problem? Yes No 2 Did the health provider recognize there was a problem? Yes No 3 Was there a delay by the women seeking care? Yes No 45 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) 4 If delay, why? Include personal, family oriented, and community oriented problems including social and financial: 5 Was there a delay in transport care or between health facilities? Yes No 6 If the delay why? Include communication, access, transport to facility and between facility problems: 7 Was there a problem in the medical care received at the facility? Yes No 8 If yes, was the problem antenatal? Yes No 9 If yes, was the problem intrapartum? Yes No 10 If yes, was the problem postpartum? Yes No 11 If yes, was the problem resuscitation?