changes in resources is important. This approach will not only avail evidence for corrective action, but will also facilitate better understanding of the existing situation; the information generated plays a major role in ensuring appropriate allocation of resources for maternal and perinatal health and defining responsibility for actions that will ultimately serve the goal of preventing avoidable deaths. For MPDSR to be successful, specific people must be assigned to supervise the work and ensure the processes are working smoothly, data are of adequate quality, recommendations are being implemented, and reports are disseminated to the appropriate authorities, civil society, professional organizations, etc. In time hiring an adequate number of people to carry out the required tasks is essential. 1.28. Phased approach to MPDSR implementation Implementing an MPDSR system can seem daunting. Using a phased approach that breaks the process into more manageable pieces is useful. In the context of Pakistan where vital registration systems are lacking and even basic MDR has not been widely implemented, it is advisable to begin with a phased approach. For example, facility-based deaths are usually easier to capture than communitybased deaths, and serve as an appropriate entry point for initiating MPDSR processes. Beginning by notifying and reviewing facility based maternal deaths and a sample of perinatal deaths (those that happen concurrently with the maternal death) will ensure the process is properly established and perfected before endeavoring to achieve the far more difficult and labour intensive task of notifying and investigating community based deaths and all perinatal deaths. Importantly, this approach will automatically address a large percentage of perinatal deaths since, as mentioned earlier, the day of birth is the time of greatest risk to both mothers and babies. Additionally, provinces could choose to start in urban areas in those facilities which have already been collecting some data on maternal deaths. When this is established, the process could expand to all health units including private hospitals. Later it could expand to include all districts and lastly to communities. Figure 2 provides an example of such a phased approach that has been successfully utilized in 33 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) several countries. It shows a typical progression when scaling up a national system. The horizontal arrow shows the expansion of the places where deaths are identified: from only government or other selected facilities to all facilities, and finally to complete coverage.