level acts as secretariat to the committee and is responsible for organizing the biannual meetings. Sample TORs: • Convene bi-annual meetings to review all maternal and neonatal deaths reported in the country and analyze trends; • Record keeping, monitoring and feedback to provinces; • Discuss identified service delivery gaps, propose policy level remedial actions and follow up implementation as required; • Develop national level action plans to address identified gaps; • Mobilize national and global resources to ensure implementation of recommended actions; • Publish annual national report of deaths, recommendations & responses; Disseminates to relevant stakeholders and provides feedback to concerned partners. 1.27. Key considerations for implementation of MPDSR 1.27.1. Communications Plan The channels for communication and reporting must be clearly understood. A communications plan should be prepared at the start that includes how results will be communicated, how crises communications will be managed (e.g. to avoid unintended consequences such as rebuttal, denial or denigration for political reasons), and how communications to promote advocacy and resource mobilisation for the system will be 32 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination conducted. 1.27.2. Logistics and technology Notifiable events should be reported quickly, ideally within 48 hours. Determining if this is feasible will require an assessment of the communications technology available in communities and at health facilities. Cellular telephones are increasingly permitting communication with previously isolated communities. At health facilities, cellular telephones, radios, land-line telephones, or e-mail can be used. Likewise, data collection benefits from using computers, tablets, or other hand-held digital devices. This can shape the communication mechanisms used for reporting deaths as well as the responses designed for intervention. 1.27.3. Resource considerations The scope of MPDSR will depend on the availability of resources. Information about the number of births and deaths, where the women received care, and where the deliveries and deaths occurred will help determine the costs involved; influence whether all, or only a subset of the cases, can be reviewed; and determine where the review should concentrate. Identifying the current state of resources (human, financial, and technological) that are available for use and anticipated changes in resources is important. This approach will not only avail evidence for corrective action, but will also facilitate better understanding of the existing situation; the information generated plays a major role in ensuring appropriate allocation of resources for maternal and perinatal health and defining responsibility for actions that will