Coordination), in coordination with Dr Eric Alain Ategbo (Chief, Nutrition, UNICEF Pakistan). The Nutrition Wing of the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination, and UNICEF are particularly grateful to Ms Danya Sarkar (Consultant, Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination/UNICEF) for developing this document and for her extensive contributions during the consultations and reviews. Special thanks are due to Dr Khawaja Masuood Ahmed (Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination) and Dr Saba Shuja (UNICEF) who supervised the preparation of this document, and provided technical inputs and backstopping for the finalization of the strategy and its regional and provincial action plans. Thanks to Mr Zivai Murira, Regional Advisor to UNICEF for his review and expert advice for the finalization of the strategy. Thanks are also due to Ruya Leghari (Consultant, UNICEF) for editing the strategy and its implementation plans. We acknowledge the technical support and inputs provided by the National Technical Advisory Group for Maternal, Adolescent, Infant and Young Child Nutrition (MAIYCN) and its provincial chapters during the development and finalization of the strategy and its regional and provincial implementation plans. The following organizations and individuals also contributed valuable inputs for the development of the strategy: the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination (Dr Atiya Aabroo and Dr Khawaja Masuood Ahmed), Ministry of Planning, Development & Special Initiatives (Ms Nargis Hayat), Ministry of Poverty Alleviation and Social Protection (Dr Rozina Khalid), Health Services Academy (Dr Shahzad Ali Khan), World Health Organization (Dr Noureen Nishtar), UNICEF (Dr Wisal Khan, Dr Saba Shuja, Syed Saeed Qadir, and Dr Naureen Arshad), World Food Programme (Mahamadou Tanimoune and Dr Yasir Ihtesham), Fouji Foundation University (Brig. Dr Naila Azam), GAIN (Dr Asma Badar), Nutrition International (Dr Bisma Imran), ACF (Saad Tanvir), Shifa Foundation (Dr Khadija Azhar), Dr Hana Mahmood, Dr Samina Naeem and other technical experts. It is important to acknowledge the Maternal, Newborn and Child Health (MNCH) Programme, the Lady Health Worker Programme, the Nutrition Sections of provincial Departments of Health and Planning and Development Departments, other provincial line departments and UN development partners in Pakistan’s provinces. Without their participation, the development of this strategy and its operational plans would not have been possible. 8 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS ANC Antenatal care BMI Body mass index CHW Community health worker CMW Community midwife DHIS District Health Information System HMIS Health Management Information System IDA