iron deficiency anemia for developing countries. Methods: An extensive literature review was carried out by retrieving articles from various databases like Pub med, Google scholar, Science direct, World Bank and WHO databases. Relevant articles were retrieved from different databases by using following text words and phrases: ‘anemia’, ‘Iron deficiency’, ‘risk factors of anemia’, ‘outcomes of anemia’, ‘interventions’ and developing countries. Results: Multiple determinants of iron deficiency anemia have been identified in the literature including genetic and environmental factors. Some of these factors are lack of proper diet, poor socioeconomic status, high parity of women, access to poor health and genetic etc. Moreover, anemia can result in various poor outcomes like fatigue, poor mental health, lack of concentration, poor feto-neonatal outcomes like stillbirth, preterm birth and postpartum Hemorrhage. Conclusion: Iron deficiency anemia is one of the important public health problems in developing countries among the women of reproductive age group. Multiple factors like age, parity, socioeconomic status and diet can determine the stores of iron in the women of reproductive age group. Anemia can lead to multiple adverse outcomes, which can be prevented by doing appropriate cost-effective interventions on time. Keywords: Iron deficiency; Women; Reproductive age; Developing countries; Literature review Introduction Iron is one of the minerals required by our body to carry out some of the essential functions. The basic and important function of iron (as a part of hemoglobin) is to transport oxygen from lungs to cells in our body and is an essential requirement of the body. According to CDC (centers for disease control and prevention), “Iron deficiency is a condition resulting from too little iron in the body”. Iron is important for the production of hemoglobin by erythroblasts. If iron supply is not adequate, the HB production does not succeed and the number of red blood cells decreases [1]. This condition is also known as “Anemia”. Anemia is detected by a hemoglobin concentration less than a certain recommended level. According to WHO the recommended Hemoglobin level, for non-pregnant women (age 15 and over) is 120 gm/L and for males (15 years and over) it is 130 gm/L [1]. Furthermore, iron deficiency can be categorized into three categories; • Mild Deficiency consists of depleted stores with normal production of Hb and irondependent protein. • Marginal deficiency consists of depleted iron stores and decreased iron-dependent protein production but normal Hb concentrations. • Iron deficiency anemia consists of decreased concentration