maternal nutrition services and the utilization and uptake of nutrition interventions in Pakistan. Critical bottlenecks exist across the domains of supply, demand, effective coverage and an enabling environment. Supply side issues for iron and folic acid supplementation include inconsistent supply, ‘stock outs’, procedural delays, inefficient human resources with suboptimal knowledge and counselling skills, and gaps in coverage for facility-based and community-based health care services. Demand side issues for iron and folic acid supplementation include low awareness of anaemia as a serious condition, a lack of support from household decision makers, the side effects of consuming iron and folic acid supplements, and financial limitations. All of these issues contribute 23 Harris-Fry, Helen, et al., ‘Determinants of intra-household food allocation between adults in South Asia – a systematic review’, International Journal for Equity in Health, vol. 16, 21 June 2017, art. 107. 24 Khadduri, R., et al., ‘Household knowledge and practices of newborn and maternal health in Haripur district, Pakistan’, Journal of Perinatology: Official Journal of the California Perinatal Association, vol. 28, no. 3, March 2008, pp. 182–187. 25 Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination, United Nations Children’s Fund and Aga Khan University, Pakistan National Nutrition Survey 2018, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad, 2019. 26 Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination, United Nations Children’s Fund and Aga Khan University, Pakistan National Nutrition Survey 2018, Government of Pakistan, Islamabad, 2019. 27 United Nations Children’s Fund, Policy Environment and Programme Action on the Nutritional Care of Pregnant Women During Antenatal Care in South Asia, UNICEF Regional Office for South Asia, Kathmandu, 2019. 26 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN to the low coverage and continued use of nutrition services. Challenges related to an enabling environment include prevailing social norms and patriarchal values, wherein the importance of women’s nutrition is not well-understood, alongside inadequate policies for health care coverage and resource allocations, weak stakeholder coordination, and the lack of a targeted evidence-based communication strategy.28 Gender issues and women’s empowerment Maternal malnutrition is rooted in gender inequality. Pakistan ranks third-to-last (151st of 153 countries) on the global Gender Gap Index 2020. To date, it has only closed 56 per cent of the gender gap in the country.29 Different dimensions of women’s agency – such as their age at marriage, formal education, decision-making power relative to men, and control over resources – have an impact on women’s and children’s nutrition.30 Early marriage increases the risk