was carried out by retrieving articles from various databases like Pub med, Google scholar, Science direct, World Bank and WHO databases. In addition to this; different reports were also being studied including World Health Organization and World Bank reports and Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 2013, Demographic health survey (DHS) reports, UNICEF: statistics. Relevant articles were retrieved from different databases by using following text words and phrases: ‘Anemia’, ‘Iron deficiency’, ‘risk factors of anemia’, ‘outcomes of anemia’, ‘interventions’ and ‘developing countries’. Eligibility criteria Types of studies included were descriptive studies, observational studies, correlational studies and comparative studies. Complete papers were reviewed and included rather than the abstracts only. Electronic search was carried out for the papers, which were published in last fifteen years in both in developed and developing countries. All the studies which had been written in the English language, reporting data on iron deficiency anemia, determinants, outcomes and interventions of anemia were included in this review. Data abstraction Data was abstracted from all of the included studies. Abstracted data included study design; type of database used for analysis (population-based or hospital-based) if any; characteristics of the study subjects, definition of Anemia; potential confounders or effect modifiers considered. Findings of the Literature Review Iron deficiency is a major cause of anemia and is more prevalent in developing countries, posing additional burden in their health care systems, when already there is a major lack of resources. The high-risk group consists of females and children but comparatively it is higher in females due to physiological reasons. Presence of some social factors further aggravates the problem. Despite several interventional programs already in working conditions, its prevalence is still very high. This poses for additional analysis of interventions and possibilities. The prevalence of anemia in developing countries is three to four times higher than in industrialized countries. The most highly affected population groups in developing countries are pregnant women (56%), school age children (53%), non-pregnant women (44%), and preschool children (42%) [6]. Global situation analysis “Regardless of its etiology, the World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that anemia affects over 1.62 billion people worldwide. The most affected group is preschool-age children, with a prevalence of 47%, followed by pregnant women (41%), non-pregnant women (30%), school-age children (25%), and people older than 60 years of age (24%); men are the least affected group (12%). However, globally, the most numerous population group is non-pregnant women (468.4