on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) several countries. It shows a typical progression when scaling up a national system. The horizontal arrow shows the expansion of the places where deaths are identified: from only government or other selected facilities to all facilities, and finally to complete coverage. The vertical arrow show the progression in geographic coverage, and the diagonal arrow shows the progression in the depth of reviews. The final structure and scope of MPDSR will differ according to the provincial context and challenges. Implementation strategies therefore should be adaptable and easily customized to ensure the feasibility of the MPDSR system. Planning efforts must consider local capabilities, limitations, logistical issues, budgetary realities, and legal requirements. It is recommended that we develop national plans for a comprehensive MDSR system, but are aware that growth in the system is unlikely to be linear and may not occur rapidly. The starting point in Pakistan varies from province to province, processes will vary and elements of the system will be introduced at different times and develop at different rates. The rate of implementation may be limited by lack of resources and other factors; therefore we must begin with projects in specific localities or facilities, which can be scaled up and replicated elsewhere when they prove successful. No one size fits all, and hence this national protocol has intentionally been kept generic enough that it will be applicable for all provinces of Pakistan to accommodate their various implementation strategies. FIGURE 2. Phased Implementation of MPDSR Source: A Time to Respond 34 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination BIBLIOGRAPHY Alkemia, L. et al. Global, regional, and national levels and trends in maternal mortality between 1990 and 2015, with scenario-based projections to 2030: a systematic analysis by the UN Maternal Mortality Estimation Inter-Agency Group. The Lancet. January 2016, Vol. 387, No. 10017. Available from: http://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/ article/PIIS0140-6736(15)00838-7/fulltext Ameh C, Smith H and van den Broek N. Facilitybased maternal death reviews in Cameroon. Centre for Maternal and Newborn Health at the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine (based on a paper originally published in the BJOG Supplementary, September 2014, by De Brouwere V, Delvaux T and Leke RJ). http://www.who.int/maternal_child_ adolescent/epidemiology/maternaldeathsurveillance/casestudies/cameroon/en/ Ameh C, Smith H and van den Broek N. Facilitybased maternal death review in Nigeria. Centre for Maternal and Newborn Health at the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine (based on a paper