aspects and processes of setting up MPDSR to ensure that the recommended changes take place. 1.8. Goals and objectives of MPDSR The primary goal of MPDSR is to eliminate preventable maternal and perinatal mortality in Pakistan by obtaining and using information on each death to guide public health actions and monitor their impact. MPDSR enhances efforts to provide information that can be used to develop interventions and improve access to and quality of care that women and their babies receive during pregnancy, delivery and the puerperium. MPDSR also aims to provide information that will lead to specific recommendations and actions and improve the evaluation of their effectiveness. The primary objectives are to provide information that effectively guides actions to eliminate preventable maternal and perinatal mortality at health facilities and in the community. Ultimately, the objective is to count every maternal and perinatal death, permitting an assessment of the true magnitude of maternal and perinatal mortality and the impact of actions taken to reduce it. 1.9. Overview of MPDSR The MPDSR system is a continuous-action cycle designed to provide real-time, actionable data 15 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) on maternal and perinatal mortality levels, causes of death, and contributing factors, with a focus on using the findings to plan appropriate and effective preventive actions. MPDSR is intended to build on established approaches such as Integrated Disease Surveillance and Response (IDSR) and MDR. It aims to identify, notify, and review maternal and perinatal deaths in communities and facilities, thus providing information to develop effective, data-driven interventions that will reduce maternal and perinatal mortality. It is critical to avoid creating a parallel system, but instead integrate within existing mechanisms to the greatest extent possible. MPDSR has eight components: 1. Identification – ongoing identification of suspected maternal, stillbirths and neonatal deaths in facilities and/or communities. 2. Notification – notification within 24 hours for facility deaths and 48 hours for community deaths to the appropriate authorities. 3. Review by the relevant committee collection of relevant data by trained personal on the prescribed forms is conducted. Review includes an examination of medical and nonmedical contributing factors that led to the death, assessment of avoidability (substandard care) and development of recommendations for preventing future deaths, and immediate implementation of pertinent recommendations. Reviews must be done by a multidisciplinary committee made up of qualified stakeholders including OB/GYNs, pediatricians, hospital administrative staff, anesthetists,