Maternal Anemia With Perinatal Outcome Pak Armed Forces Med J 2020; 70 (2): 302-07 302 TO DETERMINE THE ASSOCIATION OF MATERNAL ANEMIA WITH PERINATAL OUTCOME IN TERTIARY CARE HOSPITAL Jehan Ara Rafiq Baig, Muhammad Musarrat Jamal, Javeria Jamal, Maniha Musarrat* Pak Emirates Military Hospital/National University of Medical Sciences (NUMS) Rawalpindi Pakistan ABSTRACT Objective: Determine the association of maternal anemia with perinatal outcome in tertiary care hospital. Study Design: Prospective study. Place and Duration of Study: Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Combined Military Hospital, Sialkot from Jan 2018 to Dec 2018 Methodology: A total of 844 pregnant women were enrolled during study period. Maternal anemia, was categorized keeping with WHO criteria based on hemoglobin levels: no anemia/normal (≥11 g/dl), mild (10–10.9 g/dl), moderate (≥7-9.9 g/dl) or severe (<7 g/dl). Perinatal outcome included were preterm delivery, low birth weight, intrauterine growth retardation, intrauterine deaths, low Apgar and perinatal complications leading to neonatal intensive care unit admissions. Results: Out of 844 pregnant women studied, 558 (66.11%) were anemic (hemoglobin <11 g/dl), and 286 (33.89%) women had hemoglobin ≥11 g/dl and were labeled as non anemic. The risk of preterm delivery and low birth weight was 2.5 and 3 times higher among moderate to severely anemic women, newborns of these anemic mothers had 2.8 times increased risk of having an Apgar score of <5 at 1min and there was increased risk of intrauterine growth retardation for moderate to severely anemic mothers. Conclusion: Maternal anemia is associated with increased risk of preterm delivery, low birth weight babies, low APGAR, intrauterine growth retardation and increased perinatal mortality. Keywords: Anemia, Low birth weight, Pregnancy, Prematurity. INTRODUCTION According to World Health Organization (WHO), an estimated over 2 billion people, almost 30% population of world, are affected by anemia and almost 50% of pregnant women are suffering from varying degree of anemia1. Although anemia has been found in women of both high and middle income nations, but its more prevalent in low/middle-income countries2. Furthermore, if the population survey found anaemia prevalence of 5% or more, WHO consider it as a public health significance or problem, and it is a severe public health problem if the anemia prevalence is ≥40% in a population3. In developing countries, the causes of anaemia during pregnancy are multifactorial; it may be due to acute and chronic infections as malaria, tuberculosis and HIV, hookworm infestation, micronutrient deficiencies of iron, folate, and vitamins A and B12