of the duration and the site of the pregnancy, from any cause related to or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management but not from accidental or incidental causes. b) Direct obstetric deaths are maternal deaths resulting from obstetric complications of the pregnancy state (pregnancy, labor, or puerperium); from interventions, omissions, or incorrect treatment; or from a chain of events resulting from any of the above. c) Indirect obstetric deaths are maternal deaths resulting from previously existing disease or disease that developed during pregnancy. These deaths are not due to direct obstetric causes, but are aggravated by the physiological effects of pregnancy. d) Surveillance is the ongoing systematic collection, analysis, and interpretation of health data. It includes the timely dissemination of the resulting information to those who need them for action. Surveillance is also essential for the planning, implementation, and evaluation of public health practice. e) Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) is a type of surveillance and a component of the health information system that permits the identification, the notification, the quantification, and the determination of causes and avoidability of maternal deaths, for a defined time period and geographic location, with the goal of responding through actions that will prevent future deaths. MPDSR is not a time-limited, donor driven project. f) Standards are explicit statements of how a patient should be managed. They facilitate highlighting deficiencies by comparing the care that was given to patients with the care that ought to have been given1. g) A suspected maternal death is defined in these guidelines as the death of a woman while pregnant or within 42 days of the termination of pregnancy from any cause with the exception of motor vehicle crashes and homicides. Depending on the circumstances surrounding the death, identification of a death as a maternal death is sometimes challenging – particularly for indirect deaths. The maternal death review committee will review the circumstances and confirm whether it is maternal or not i.e. whether the death was “related to or aggravated by the pregnancy and its management.” h) A facility-based Maternal Deaths Review (MDR) is a “qualitative, in-depth investigation of the causes of, and circumstances surrounding, maternal deaths which occur in health care facilities.” It is particularly concerned with tracing the path of the women who died, through the health care system and within the facility, to identify any avoidable or OPERATIONAL DEFINITIONS 1. Standards for