(Mo/NHSR&C), in collaboration with the UN partners (WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA) has developed the National Guidelines on Maternal and Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) in May 2017. The development of this document is a major breakthrough in paving the way for reduction of preventable maternal and perinatal deaths in Pakistan. The Ministry would like to extend its sincere thanks to the organizations and persons who contributed considerable time and efforts in ensuring the development of this guiding document. Special thanks to Prof Dr Lubna Hassan, Ex-President SOGP, who was the lead technical consultant for development of these guidelines and also supported development of the training materials for capacity building on MPDSR in the country. Moreover, the provincial feedback received during the national consultative meeting held in February 2018 has proved to be extremely helpful in finalizing the national guidelines document. Other key contributors who deserve high gratitude for their hard work and leading the process of institutionalization of MPDSR in Pakistan, include the following: Dr Ramez Khairi Mahaini Coordinator, EM/RGO/DHP/WRH WHO EMRO, Egypt. Dr Karima Gholbzouri Medical Officer, EM/RGO/DHP/WRH WHO EMRO, Egypt. Dr Lamia Mahmoud Medical Officer WHO country office, Islamabad. Dr Qudsia Uzma National Professional Officer MNCAH WHO country office, Islamabad. Dr Asfandyar Sherani National Professional Officer RMNCH&N WHO Balochistan, Quetta. Dr Yahya Gulzar National Professional Officer RMNCH&N WHO Punjab, Lahore. Dr Malik Muhammad Safi Director Programme Implementation Mo/NHSR&C Islamabad. Dr Sabeen Afzal Deputy Director Programme Implementation Mo/NHSR&C Islamabad. Dr Atiya Aabroo Deputy Director Programme Implementation Mo/NHSR&C Islamabad. Dr Chaudhry Jameel Ahmed National Programme Specialist UNFPA Islamabad. Dr Samia Rizwan MNCH Specialist UNICEF Islamabad. Dr Muhammad Babar Alam Head of Office, WHO Balochistan Ex-staff UNFPA Punjab. 5 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) The following definitions are adapted from the WHO application of the ICD 10 to deaths during pregnancy, childbirth, and the puerperium (ICD-Maternal Mortality); the WHO MDSR technical guidelines and WHO Beyond the numbers (BTN ) except where otherwise stated. a) A maternal death is; “The death of a woman while pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy, irrespective of the duration and the site of the pregnancy, from any cause related to or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management but not from accidental or incidental causes. b) Direct obstetric deaths are maternal deaths resulting from obstetric complications of the pregnancy state (pregnancy, labor, or puerperium); from interventions,