studies also denote similar finding. Infections were also a reason for maternal death. In this study, infection caused 12.88% deaths in mothers. Multiple infection during pregnancy lead to death by affecting mother and child. These findings are consistent with other studies17. This study finds untrained persons facilitating child birth as a threat for mother. Pakistan has different maternal mortality ration in different provision due unequal distribution of health services. Most of the deliveries are conducted by the traditional birth attends which puts the life of mother in danger it has been also declared in another study18. Lack of awareness of pregnancy related complication may also worsen the situation. This study showed results related to lack of awareness regarding pregnancy related complications. In rural areas of Pakistan women don’t have any asses to social media like TV, Mobile phone etc. So, mother remain unaware to symptoms happening unusually with their gestation and unborn baby. As a study was done in Nigeria in 2017 claimed that most of the mothers are unaware of gestational complications19. CONCLUSION Maternal mortality has become the serious public health issue in Pakistan and it contributes to low life expectancy among women. It is alarming that Pakistan has the highest maternal mortality rate. Moreover, contributing factors of maternal mortality in rural areas like delivering babies at home by traditional birth attendants without aseptic techniques, unavailability of antennal care, lack of awareness regarding dangerous signs of pregnancy play vital role to provoke mortality rate. Community base interventions can contribute a lot by educating about various factors for controlling the maternal mortality. Grant Support & Financial Disclosures: None REFERENCES 1. Safdar, S., Inam, S. N., Omair, A., & Ahmed, S. T. (2002). Maternal health care in a rural area of Pakistan. J Pak Med Assoc, 52(7), 308-11. Nadia Ashraf, Sadia Sarwar, Nagina Bibi P J M H S Vol. 15, NO. 3, MARCH 2021 615 2. Costello, A., Azad, K., & Barnett, S. (2006). An alternative strategy to reduce maternal mortality. The Lancet, 368(9546), 1477-1479. 3. Berhan, Y., & Berhan, A. (2014). Meta-analysis of selected maternal and fetal factors for perinatal mortality. Ethiopian journal of health sciences, 24, 55-68. 4. Morgan, M. A., & Lifshay, J. (2006). Community engagement in public health. California Endowment under the sponsorship of Contra Costa Health Services (CCHS), 1-8. 5. El-Askari, G., Freestone, J., Irizarry, C., Kraut, K. L., Mashiyama, S. T., Morgan, M. A.,