made by technology team that will assign a pin code to every participant which will help in follow up entry of each participant´s data and data analysis by technology team. After randomization, computer software will automatically generate numbers to the participants in an allocation ratio of 1:1 to each group, it will help remove the selection bias. Numbers will be generated from 1-25 randomly by software and after completion of first 25 participants the program will automatically start a new set of 25 numbers. Concealed boxes in sets of 1-25 having IV and oral iron will be made by another team of investigators in respective wards which will be given to the participant having the same computer software generated number. Blinding: Researchers and care givers will be blinded about the allocation of each participant either to the intervention or usual care group. Unblinding will be permissible to care givers at 28 weeks for further entry of data of allocated participant in respective groups. Table-I: PICO for study population. Population Intervention Comparison Outcome Inclusion Singleton pregnancy Haemoglobin 11-13 g/L at booking with ferritin below the threshold (<30) Age >18 years of age at recruitment to the study Able to provide written informed consent Patients willing to enroll in study NAID patients will be divided into two groups by randomization. One group (usual care/ oral group) will be offered the routine care prophylactic dose of oral iron which is 30-45 mg and other group (interventional /IV group) will be offered intravenous therapeutic dose of iron to replenish iron stores which is 1000mg calculated by Ganzoni’s formula. They will continue the prophylactic dose after replenishing iron stores. Adherence to intervention protocols will be monitored by proper documentation and laboratory test. Usual care vs intervention arm will be compared for outcome Primary: Maternal: Hemoglobin at 36 weeks’ gestation to birth Secondary: Neonatal birthweight or small for gestational age, preterm birth, blood transfusion, preeclampsia, multidimensional fatigue inventory, breast feeding avoidance/ initiation, neonatal cord ferritin and haemoglobin FAIR Study Pak J Med Sci January February 2023 Vol. 39 No. 1 www.pjms.org.pk 296 Fig.1: Flow of participants throughout the FAIR study. Tayyiba Wasim et al. Pak J Med Sci January February 2023 Vol. 39 No. 1 www.pjms.org.pk 297 Data Collection and Management: All pregnant women of gestational age <20 weeks in the participating units will be advised complete blood count. Those having haemoglobin >11g/dl, will have their