their participation, the development of this strategy and its operational plans would not have been possible. 8 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS ANC Antenatal care BMI Body mass index CHW Community health worker CMW Community midwife DHIS District Health Information System HMIS Health Management Information System IDA Iron deficiency anaemia IFA Iron and folic acid LBW Low birth weight LHV Lady Health Visitor LHW Lady Health Worker MHS Maternal Nutrition Strategy MMS Multiple micronutrient supplementation MNCH Maternal, newborn and child health MoNHSR&C Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination MUAC Mid-upper arm circumference NNS National Nutrition Survey PANS Pakistan Adolescent Nutrition Strategy PDHS Pakistan Demographic Health Survey PNC Postnatal care PPC Preconception care RMNCAH Reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health SBC Social and behaviour change SBCC Social and behaviour change communication SDGs Sustainable Development Goals UNICEF United Nations Children’s Fund WASH Water, sanitation and hygiene WHA World Health Assembly WHO World Health Organization WRA Women of reproductive age 9 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN Chapter 1. INTRODUCTION 1.1 Maternal nutrition Maternal nutrition is defined as the nutritional needs of women before pregnancy (during the ‘preconception’ period), during pregnancy and during the postpartum period. It extends as early as adolescence in contexts where early childbearing occurs. While maternal nutrition is associated with women’s reproductive potential, it should be addressed as part of a life course approach within the larger context of women’s health and nutrition during all of the stages of their lives. This approach highlights the importance of reaching women during adolescence and young adulthood to achieve healthy lifestyles before conception, as well as during pregnancy and the postpartum period throughout their reproductive years. There is a growing movement to ensure that the lifecycle approach also reaches women of reproductive age (WRA) – that is, women from 15 to 49 years old – who are not pregnant or lactating (NPNL), women of reproductive age who do not have young children, and older women. Reaching these groups remains a gap in current programming approaches. Women have increased nutritional requirements across their lifecycle, during menstruation, pregnancy, childbirth and lactation. As a result, they are vulnerable to malnutrition. Adolescent girls have increased needs for energy, protein and micronutrients due to physical growth and development, alongside greater needs for iron due to menstruation. During pregnancy, increased nutrients are needed to maintain maternal metabolisms and tissue accretion, while supporting foetal