nutrition will be key to achieving SDG 2 to end hunger and all forms of malnutrition, SDG 3 to ensure good health and well-being for all, and SDG 5 to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. 28 PHC Global, Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination, and United Nations Children’s Fund, National Iron Folic Acid Bottleneck Analysis: Pakistan, Islamabad, UNICEF, 2022 (forthcoming). 29 World Economic Forum, Insight Report: Global Gender Gap Report 2020, WEF, Cologny, 2019. 30 Vir, Sheila C, ‘Improving women’s nutrition imperative for rapid reduction of childhood stunting in South Asia: coupling of nutrition specific interventions with nutrition sensitive measures essential’, Maternal and Child Nutrition, vol. 12, suppl. 1, May 2016, pp. 72–90. 31 Gillespie, Stuart and Mara van den Bold, ‘Agriculture, Food Systems, and Nutrition: Meeting the Challenge’, Global Challenges, vol. 1, no. 3, April 2017, p. 1600002; Balagamwala, Mysbah, Haris Gazdar and Hussain Mallah, ‘Women’s Agricultural Work and Nutrition in Pakistan: Findings from Qualitative Research’, LANSA Working Paper Series No. 2, LANSA, Brighton, 2015. 27 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN Pakistan’s national development framework, Vision 2025, emphasizes the need to address the food and nutrition needs of the country’s growing population as a critical component of human and social development, as well as national stability. It describes several initiatives to improve nutrition, ranging from implementing the Hunger Free Pakistan Programme, to food-for-work schemes, livelihood initiatives to improve access to food, nutrition-specific and nutrition-sensitive interventions, fortified food supplementation, fortification and biofortification, feeding programmes and nutrition education. The National Health Vision 2016–2025, the National Vision for Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health and Nutrition (RMNCAH&N) 2016–2025, and the Pakistan Multi-sectoral Nutrition Strategy (PMNS) 2018–2025 are aligned with Vision 2025. These frameworks all recognize the importance of addressing women’s nutrition. Other policy developments related to maternal nutrition include the Protection of Breastfeeding and Child Nutrition Act, the Food Fortification Act and the Early Marriage Restraint Act. The National Vision for Reproductive, Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health and Nutrition focuses on the health sector’s critical role in enabling the implementation of nutritionspecific interventions and includes a renewed focus on promoting evidence-based international best practices. It calls for the integration of maternal nutrition and breastfeeding support strategies within primary care programmes, while urging the integration of parallel initiatives including the Maternal, Neonatal and Child Health (MNCH) Programme, the Expanded Programme for Immunization (EPI), programmes on