filling gaps in human resources, curriculum development and training. They also include resources for updated social and behaviour change approaches and the development of information, education and communication materials for frontline workers and health care providers, such as job aids and counselling materials, among others. Each province will revise its essential drug list (EDL) to include essential maternal nutrition supplies, such as iron and folic acid, multiple micronutrient supplements and calcium. All of the provinces will sensitize decision makers, including parliamentarians and provincial authorities, for the approval of increased resource allocations for maternal nutrition. They will also address challenges to the timely disbursement of funds by expediting approval processes for PC1s and the release of funds. Balochistan will develop and advocate for the approval of a PC-1 on comprehensive reproductive, maternal, newborn and child health and nutrition services. Sub-strategy 1.3. Advocacy, awareness, and social and behaviour change Pakistan’s provinces will conduct advocacy to foster greater political and social commitment to maternal nutrition by Departments of Health, nutrition-sensitive sectors, the private sector, parliamentarians, UN partners and other development partners. They will advocate for the greater visibility and understanding of maternal nutrition among the general public through mass communication efforts. The provinces will each develop an innovative, comprehensive social and behaviour change strategy for maternal nutrition. This will be linked with existing social and behaviour communication change 56 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN interventions on maternal, newborn and child health, as well as existing nutrition-related SBCC efforts, which are currently focused on the nutrition of infants and young children. These SBCC strategies will use a combination of approaches and information, education and communication materials to reach all audience levels – women, husbands, families, community leaders and the general public. The provinces will also ensure that information, education and communication materials for antenatal care and postnatal care include updated maternal nutrition messages and updated information on maternal nutrition practices. A specific focus will be placed on interpersonal counselling methods at health facilities and during community visits. To this end, job aids will be created for frontline workers and health care providers, and materials will be created for home use. Another specific focus will be approaches that target husbands to increase their engagement and support for maternal nutrition. Strategic area 2. Programme and implement Sub-strategy 2.1. Maternal nutrition interventions in the health sector All of Pakistan’s provinces have committed to updating interventions for maternal