This will done by first assessing gaps and updating routine information systems to capture additional maternal nutrition-related indicators beyond antenatal care (ANC-1) attendance, anaemia diagnosed during the first antenatal care visit, family planning services and commodities provided, and the administration of the tetanus toxoid vaccine. Additional indicators include the number of antenatal care and postnatal care visits, anthropometric indicators (body mass index and weight gain), receipt of micronutrient supplementation and deworming prophylaxis. The Updated indicators for data collection will be integrated into monitoring and reporting systems, and will be modified in the District Health Information System 2 (DHIS-2). The regions will assess programme implementation to monitor progress through periodic evaluations and by assessing gaps in coverage and service utilization, such as micronutrient supplementation. They will also develop plans for evaluating new social and behaviour change approaches and materials used, and will conduct periodic rapid assessments of knowledge and practices. Sub-strategy 3.2. Learning agenda The regions of Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan will identify and develop a research agenda within programming. This will cover issues of integration – that is, the integration of maternal nutrition into the broader health programme – and effective nutrition-sensitive approaches in the context of each region. They will forge links with academic institutions to help conduct this research. The regions will also document programme outcomes and lessons learned in the form of reports, case studies and briefs. These will be disseminated to relevant stakeholders at all levels. 3.4 Provincial strategic plans Each province in Pakistan has developed a strategy matrix and implementation plan to implement the Maternal Nutrition Strategy within their specific contexts. These activities are summarized below. Strategic area 1. Enabling environment Sub-strategy 1.1. Policy and coordination All of Pakistan’s provinces are prioritizing the enforcement and monitoring of legislation which has a bearing on maternal nutrition outcomes. This includes legislation on maternity protection laws and benefits, social protection schemes and benefits targeting vulnerable women and their families, food fortification legislation and regulations for staples and salt, legislation and the enforcement of limits on trans fatty acids through provincial food regulatory boards, and the enforcement and monitoring of the ban on breastmilk substitutes. Progress varies across provinces, as processes are at different stages in each province. Punjab, Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa have established regulated standards for the main dietary sources of trans fatty acids. Punjab has also proposed the development of legislation to regulate media