(2016–2030), UNICEF, New York, 2016; Maximising the Quality of Scaling up Nutrition Network, ‘Planning and Costing to Accelerate Actions for Scaling Up Nutrition’, MQSUN briefing paper 3, August 2014. 37 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN timelines for the approval and dispersal of budgets. Additional efforts will be made to advocate for resources during emergencies and epidemics. Sub-strategy 1.3. Strengthen advocacy and awareness of maternal nutrition by designing social and behaviour change (SBC) strategies that target different audiences Many of the factors that affect women’s nutritional status are behavioural. As such, social and behaviour change interventions are a critical component of maternal nutrition programmes to facilitate behaviour change at all levels – the individual, household and community levels – and to promote shifts in social norms and the environment at the population level. Evidence-based social and behaviour change approaches for maternal nutrition should target the determinants of behaviours, that is knowledge, beliefs, social norms and the ability to act. These approaches should focus on women as individuals, as well as key influencers and an enabling environment.37 Global guidance recommends using a combination of social and behaviour change approaches through variety of channels – such as mass communication, community mobilization, interpersonal counselling, mobile technology and social media, among others – and ensuring that information is complementary and reinforced through all the channels and contact points. For maternal nutrition, information and materials should be provided to both women and men. Gender, age, literacy levels and knowledge should be considered while avoiding gender stereotypes or biases in materials. In Pakistan, greater advocacy is needed to enhance awareness and understanding, in order to achieve deep-seated social change and foster positive norms for improved maternal nutrition. As interventions are largely provided through maternal health delivery platforms – that is, through antenatal and postnatal care – social and behaviour change activities and messages need to be fully integrated into existing approaches and delivered by health care providers in facilities, as well as by frontline workers in communities. This will require building human resource capacities for interpersonal counselling, ensuring the quality of counselling, providing contextually-specific and culturally-specific information, education and communication (IEC) materials, and monitoring behavioural outcomes. Health care providers and frontline workers should also use tailored counselling approaches according to women’s nutritional status and risk factors. Based on existing literature, secondary data and the overarching goal of this Maternal Nutrition Strategy, priority maternal nutrition practices should include