resources, alongside unsustainable production and consumption patterns, food losses, food waste, the unequal food distribution and unequal access to food.3 The rise in the consumption of processed and fast foods, particularly in urban settings, compromises nutritious diets. More often than not, intrahousehold dynamics of household food and resources also do not benefit women and girls. Inadequate services Challenges to accessing quality health services, as well as low levels of antenatal care (ANC) and postnatal care (PNC) coverage, negatively affect women’s nutritional status. Opportunity gaps exist in terms of the dual coverage of maternal health interventions and nutrition interventions within the health system. A lack of access to nutrition-sensitive services – such as adequate sanitation and hygiene, as well as safe drinking water – also have a negative impact by increasing the risk of exposure to contaminants and infectious diseases. This affects women’s nutritional status. Inadequate care practices Poverty, gender inequality, low levels of educational attainment and constraints to women’s ability to make life choices – including choices about their health, marriage and childbearing – contribute to malnutrition. Women with lower status in societies have less access to information and less control over resources. This makes it challenging for women to engage in optimal care practices for themselves, which has a negative impact on their health and nutrition. 1.3 Maternal malnutrition: Consequences There are important connections between poor nutrition and women’s health and well-being, on the one hand, and the health, development and productivity of future generations, on the other (see Figure 1). Maternal malnutrition, particularly during preconception and in the early stages of pregnancy, increases the risk of complications during pregnancy and delivery. It increases the risk of poor birth outcomes, as well as maternal, neonatal and child morbidities, and maternal and neonatal mortality (see Table 1).4 Maternal malnutrition, through its effect on children’s cognitive development, academic performance and the productivity of future generations, has implications for countries’ human capital, socioeconomic development and economic growth. 3 Branca, Francesco, et al., ‘Nutrition and health in women, children, and adolescent girls’, BMJ, vol. 351, 14 September 2015, p. h4713. 4 Ramakrishnan, Usha, et al., ‘Effect of women’s nutrition before and during early pregnancy on maternal and infant outcomes: A systematic review’, Paediatric and Perinatal Epidemiology, vol. 26, suppl. 1, July 2012, pp. 285–301; Rahman Muhammad Mizanur, et al., ‘Maternal anemia and risk of adverse birth and health outcomes in lowand middle-income countries: