sector response. They will enhance communication and coordination with the National Disaster Management Authority and District Disaster Management Authorities (DDMAs) to address maternal nutrition needs. Risk assessments will be conducted to identify vulnerabilities in terms of food security, diets, and the nutrition of pregnant and lactating women and women of reproductive age. Provincial Disaster Management Authorities will ensure that measures to safeguard women’s health and nutrition are included in preparedness guidelines, disaster risk management plans, and relief and recovery plans. The provinces will also strengthen the commodity supply chain for maternal nutrition in disasters and emergency situations. They will ensure that there are no disruptions in the provision of nutrition services for women – such as the provision of micronutrients, blended fortified foods and ready-touse supplementary food (RUSF) – during the relief and recovery phases, as well as in normal settings to address acute malnutrition. Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa have proposed strengthening nutrition services at Community Management of Acute Malnutrition Centres – including Targeted Supplementary Feeding Programmes and Outpatient Therapeutic Programmes – for pregnant and lactating women and women of reproductive age. These will be linked to regularized nutrition services, the Maternal, Newborn and Child Health Programme, the Expanded Programme on Immunization, and primary health care services. 58 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN Strategic area 3. Evidence-based programming through MEAL Sub-strategy 3.1. Monitoring, evaluation, accountability and learning All of Pakistan’s provinces support the proposal to assess gaps and update routine information systems to capture additional maternal nutrition-related indicators. This means indicators beyond antenatal care attendance, anaemia diagnosed in the first antenatal care visit, family planning services and commodities provided, and the administration of the tetanus toxoid vaccine. Following assessments of gaps, these systems will need to be updated and streamlined in terms of reporting, reporting mechanisms and tools, and the modification of provincial District Health Information Systems. Additional maternal nutrition indicators include antenatal and postnatal care visits, anthropometric indicators (body mass index and weight gain), micronutrient supplementation and deworming. The provinces have proposed to better integrate various reporting and information management systems, such as District Health Information Systems, the reporting mechanisms of Maternal, Newborn and Child Health Programmes and the Lady Health Worker Programme, the Logistics Management Information System and Nutrition Management Information System. They also suggest strengthening the Logistics Management Information System for the dispatch, distribution and tracking of nutrition commodities. The provinces are considering ways to explore quality