good [1]. It is important to check for the levels of hemoglobin 2-4 weeks after initial doses. It should be continued for at least 6 months after Hb concentrations have reached to normal levels in order to build iron stores. Intravenous iron should be considered in levels less than 90 g/L. Antihelminthic treatment: Interventions besides diet and supplements include the use of anthelminthics in at-risk population. However there is a lack of evidence regarding its effectiveness and thus cannot be recommended in out setting [16]. Food fortification: Promotion of foods rich in iron as well as micronutrients (folic acid, Vitamin A, C, B-12, and Zinc) help in iron absorption. Iron fortification is one of the strategies that was implemented in the west but later on it was brought to an end. The reason was that in the western countries iron overload (hemochromatosis) in male population was already prevalent so introducing iron-fortified diet for general population may prove risky for a part of the population. People with this kind of disorder have already high intestinal iron absorption. In the western countries, the focus should be on specific groups for iron supplementation rather than on general population which may lead to iron overload and have harmful effects [1]. A recent advancement is the development of a variety of “in–home fortificants”. These range from small packets of encapsulated micronutrients that can be mixed with any complementary food. Among these, the sprinkles developed at sick kids hospital in Toronto Canada is now being used in several countries for infants and young children, and as part of the emergency relief effort in Indonesia following the December 2004 tsunami [6]. In order to enhance the absorption of iron, vitamin B-12 is recommended along with others. Rich sources of Vitamin B-12 are meat and poultry [1]. Managing post-partum complications and family planning: “The average menstrual blood loss is 35 ml/cycle, with a range of 25-60 ml. It is lower in women using oral contraception and higher in women using intrauterine contraceptive device” [2]. Postpartum anemia is a problem that needs to be worked upon. Additionally, those methods of family planning should be used that decrease bleeding [2]. Birth spacing is also very important as it helps in replenishing depleted iron stores as a result of pregnancy and childbirth [17]. Other interventions: Other interventions include control of malaria and other infectious diseases [18]. Interventions on public level include