maternal calcium supplementation, maternal iodine supplementation or fortification, and addressing maternal wasting and food insecurity with balanced protein and energy supplementation. According to the recent Lancet series, which offers an update on progress achieved on maternal and child malnutrition globally, there is growing evidence on the importance of these recommended interventions and new evidence of how effective antenatal multiple micronutrient supplementation is for preventing adverse pregnancy and birth outcomes.6 Maternal nutrition interventions have had documented positive impacts on several child health outcomes. However, there is less data on the effects of maternal nutrition interventions on maternal health outcomes. This is because many programmes that target the first 1,000 days of life focus their implementation and evaluation efforts on the benefits for infant and child health and related nutrition outcomes, rather than on maternal diets and nutrition during pregnancy and lactation.7 There is an established evidence base for nutrition-specific interventions that are delivered through the health system and other sectoral strategies that directly affect nutrition. There is less evidence on nutrition-sensitive interventions and other sectoral strategies which indirectly affect nutrition and are delivered both through the health and non-health systems. Recent evidence indicates that indirect strategies – including malaria prevention, preconception care, and water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) promotion – are beneficial for nutrition outcomes.8 Community-based delivery platforms more equitably reach women compared to facility-based settings. Tables 2 and 3 broadly summarize the maternal outcomes of interventions that target pregnant and lactating women, mothers with young children, and women of reproductive age who are not pregnant or lactating.9 5 Black, Robert E., et al., ‘Maternal and child undernutrition and overweight in low-income and middle-income countries’, The Lancet, vol. 382, no. 9890, 6 June 2013, pp. 427–451. 6 Keats, Emily C., et al., ‘Effective interventions to address maternal and child malnutrition: an update of the evidence’, The Lancet Child & Adolescent Health, vol. 5, no. 5, May 2021, pp. 367–384. 7 Lee, Sun Eun, et al., ‘Dietary intakes of women during pregnancy in low-and middle-income countries’, Public Health Nutrition, vol. 16, no. 8, August 2013, pp. 1340–1353; Victora, Cesar G, et al., ‘Scaling up maternal nutrition programs to improve birth outcomes: A review of implementation issues’, Food and Nutrition Bulletin, vol., 33, no. 2, suppl. 1, June 2012, pp. S6–S26. 8 Keats, Emily C., et al., ‘Effective interventions to address maternal and child malnutrition: an update of the evidence’, The Lancet Child