making their level drop. Serum ferritin usually falls markedly between 12 and 25 weeks of gestation, probably as a result of iron utilisation for expansion of the maternal red blood cell mass.1,2 Iron transfer from mother to foetus occurs against the concentration gradient. Most iron transfer to the foetus occurs after 30 weeks of gestation which correspond to the time of peak efficiency of maternal iron absorption.18 Results of this study did not differ from those of other studies carried out in different parts of the country and abroad and have been found in conformity with previous works carried out by various workers. Several factors were observed to be responsible for a high rate of iron deficiency in a community like ours. Multi parity, poor socio economic and educational status are the principal reasons for a high prevalence of iron deficiency anaemia in our population.19 The salient feature of our study is a statistically significant decrease in Hb, serum ferritin level, serum-iron level and Fe/TIBC% and a significant increase in total iron binding capacity (TIBC) and pronounced increase in un-saturated iron binding capacity (UIBC) in pregnant women compared to nonpregnant controls. The proportion of iron deficient pregnant women was 50–60% of cases, and iron deficient J Ayub Med Coll Abbottabad 2011;23(2) http://www.ayubmed.edu.pk/JAMC/23-2/Nuzhat.pdf 39 anaemic was about 26%, while 20% of controls were also iron deficient but none of them was iron deficient anaemic. These findings are not unexpected since the diet of the population in the region (especially rural areas) is heavily reliant on grains such as maize, which contains large amounts of phytates which are known to interfere with the intestinal uptake of iron and other trace minerals, such as Zinc and Calcium. The data indicates significant differences in haemoglobin, serum ferritin, serum iron levels TIBC, UIBC, and Fe/TIBC%. Significantly lower haemoglobin and serum ferritin and higher TIBC and UIBC were observed in 2nd and 3rd trimester of pregnancy than in the 1st trimester. Haemoglobin level in all the three trimesters of pregnancy were significantly lower than in the control subjects (p<0.001) and the decrease was especially pronounced in the 2nd and 3rd trimesters, which is in agreement with the study conducted by Mah-e-Munir et al20. Their study revealed that iron deficiency was the most frequent cause of anaemia. In another study conducted by Bondevik et al21 in Nepal, about 76.6% of pregnant women were found anaemic. Approximately 81.3%