of MPDSR are already in place and where? • Is maternal death a notifiable event? • What percentage of deaths is estimated to be notified from health facilities and from the community? 28 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination • If more than one system that reports maternal or perinatal deaths is currently in place, how do these systems interact? • What is the status of the vital registration system and how does it interact with MPDSR? • Does the death certificate include a checkbox for pregnancy? • Is Integrated Disease Surveillance & Response (IDSR) in place and, if so, does it report the number of maternal deaths? • Is maternal death and perinatal mortality data routinely collected? • What is the quality of the available data? • Are reviews of maternal and/or perinatal death done? 1.25. General steps and structures for MPDSR Implementation MPDSR stresses the concept of a maternal death as a notifiable event and the country incorporates maternal deaths into the system of notifiable disease reporting. The system takes concrete steps to ensure timely notification, review/audit, reporting on all maternal deaths and response as indicated in the following 8 steps for MPDSR implementation: 1. Establish task forces at the national and provincial levels to oversee the design and launch of MPDSR. Once the MPDSR process is successfully established the task forces will disband and responsibilities for MPDSR will rest with the committees. 2. Each task force will undertake the following: a. map the health facilities/communities which are eligible for MPDSR with feasibility to review maternal deaths b. set up MPDSR committees at national and provincial levels and in selected districts and facilities. c. sensitize/orient committee members on roles and responsibilities d. advocate for policy/legal aspects 3. Implementation of reviews a. train health workers and introduce MPDSR to the facility b. determine facility readiness c. identify coordinators and data collectors (district, facility, and community) d. identify sources of data e. report, identify, notify maternal deaths f. collect data and de-identify /code g. make standards of good practice available h. assess cause of death using ICD-MM/ICD-PM as required. i. focal person /coordinator prepares file and sets up committee meeting 4. MPDSR committee meeting at district / facility level a. summary of case presented b. case reviewed : avoidability ascertained c. recommendations /response plan of action developed d. MDR 4 form filled and sent to