is the essential component of MPDSR. It is a qualitative, in-depth investigation of the causes, and circumstances surrounding the maternal and/or perinatal deaths. It is an important strategy to improve the quality of obstetric care and reduce maternal and perinatal mortality. Analysis of these deaths can identify the delays that contribute to deaths at various levels and the information used to adopt measures to fill the gaps in service. The central objective is to find out why the death occurred and what can be done to prevent future deaths. Achieving this will depend on the type and quality of data that has been collected, the care taken in preparing and reviewing the case summaries, and the insight provided by a brief analysis of each death. All above documentation is reviewed by the facility committee to determine the causes of death, categorize the death as “Avoidable” or “Unavoidable”, and make recommendations to prevent future deaths. The committee will utilize the Committee Worksheet (appendix 4) to guide the review process and the Action Plan Template (appendix 5) to formulate recommendations for response. The committee must audit the care that has been provided against established standards and protocols to identify any gaps in services and propose remedial action (as national standards of care are not currently available in Pakistan the review can be conducted and the quality of care can be assessed by using local agreed on standards, initially). The facility committee then reports its completed findings to the provincial MPDSR committee via the Summary Form for the Provincial Committee MDF 4 (appendix 6). 1.14. Additional considerations for facility based MDR Suspected maternal deaths occurring in a health facility are usually easier to identify than those in the community. Nevertheless, to ensure that none are missed, the coordinators have the responsibility to check death logs and other records from the previous 24 hours and assess deaths of all WRA in their facility to determine if any were probable maternal deaths. This should include not only the obstetric ward but other areas where WRA may seek care or enter the facility (e.g. other wards or outpatient department). The facility review process may be complemented by data collected at community level on MDF 3 (appendix 3) to provide more indepth information. When used in combination facility based death reviews and community data reconstruct the whole story surrounding the woman’s death. (The above two processes can