mortality in our study. Similar results were shown in previous studies as well.4-12,15 Our study showed a significant decline in incidence of deaths due to postpartum hemorrhage from 2012 to 2022. Although hemorrhage remains leading cause of deaths worldwide, incidence of uterine atony has reduced globally because of trained healthcare professionals’ availability during childbirth leading to early recognition and management of uterine atony.16 Increased use of uterotonics like misoprostol along with standardized guidelines and protocols for managing postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) also has a role to play. The majority of maternal deaths occurred in postpartum period in our study which is actual crucial period of surveillance, similar to other studies.5,6,8-10 Proper training of HCPs and awareness of families should be done to address and prevent avoidable factors. The three delays model takes a holistic approach to understanding the various responsibilities at the household, community, and health system levels to prevent maternal deaths. The majority of our patients had first delay (41.44%) as more than half deaths occurred within 24 hours of admission, which is failure to recognize the early signs of complications and decision to seek help. Similar data is reported in other studies from Pakistan.10-12 The pregnant ladies often delay in seeking necessary health care because of lack of education, autonomy, empowerment and poor socioeconomic condition. Women are usually dependent on their husband to decide about their medical care, in addition to that these ladies feel that care of others at home is more important for them.17 Illiteracy, lack of antenatal care and poor socioeconomic class were important factors associated with maternal mortality in our study as is reported from other studies of LMIC.7,8,18 Almost 60% of the women who died, did not have any antenatal booking in our hospital and 39% of them did not had any antenatal booking in any healthcare setup. Every woman requires access to superior healthcare throughout pregnancy, childbirth, and the postpartum period. Maternal well-being is intricately connected Fig.2: Trends of three delays of care over two periods of years. Tayyiba Wasim Pak J Med Sci February 2025 Vol. 41 No. 2 www.pjms.org.pk 425 to newborn health, underscoring the critical necessity of skilled healthcare professionals attending all births. Timely intervention and care from trained professionals can significantly impact the survival outcomes for both mothers and newborns.19 Once women decide to seek care, there is usually much delay in reaching healthcare facility which can provide appropriate