beneficial. The door to door approach should be implemented, keeping in mind the cultural implications and lack of access to medical facilities for women. Counseling should involve all family members, considering men as well that would help them to accept the idea. Pakistan has a male dominating society; hence male member of the family should be made aware of this problem. Sometimes when these pills are prescribed it is doubted for being oral contraceptives so it is important to have a populationbased approach for implementation. Keeping in view the growing deficiencies, a national wheat flour fortification program was developed by health ministry of Pakistan in 2004. This program had aimed to achieve universal flour fortification by the year 2013 [20]. Micronutrient initiative is an organization that is working with Pakistani Government, United nation, and private agencies to achieve certain objectives. One of those objectives is to reduce micronutrient deficiencies in children via the introduction of sprinkles and another is iron interventions for women of childbearing age. Since early 2010, this organization has been working for iron fortification. Special focus is on country’s earthquake affected areas. Their objectives include providing assistance in fortification, training mill staff, organizing educational sessions for general public and ensure quality control. They predict that soon all flour produced in Azad Jammu and Kashmir will be fortified. With the help of community organizations, efforts are being generated to strengthen iron and folic acid supplementation program. It is also planned that this organization in collaboration with government will reach out the whole Pakistani population [21]. Intervention plan and impact evaluation Realizing the importance and deficiencies of iron, the Government of Pakistan in its 9th 5year plan has committed for the control of this problem. Studies were done at NIFA (nuclear institute for food and agriculture) Peshawar to test for the feasibility, stability and storage of this product. After establishing a basis for the implementation of this program countrywide, a grant of 3 million US$ was received from the Global alliance for improved nutrition (GAIN) by the ministry of health. It was predicted that when the project is running at full scale in 2010, 45% of Pakistan flour will be fortified and 74.2 million people will be consuming this product regularly [22] Pakistan ministry of health gave the contract of manufacturing FeNaEDTA to Fortitech Asia Pacific in 2007 [23]. When micronutrient initiative program was evaluated it was identified that