and MDF 4the Summary Form for the Province (see section 2 above). The district committee reviews the information to determine the causes of death and categorize the death as “Avoidable” or “Unavoidable” and make the necessary recommendations to prevent future deaths. 23 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) DATA ANALYSIS Data analysis and interpretation of results are critical components of any surveillance system. This process entails development of a data management plan with a clear framework for data transmission, aggregation, processing, and storage, along with an analytical plan that includes specified indicators. The process is also expected to document the frequency of medical and non-medical contributing factors in maternal and perinatal deaths. Data analysis is undertaken at district, provincial, or national level. However once the review process is well established large health facilities should also begin performing descriptive analyses of facility-based deaths. 1.19. Data Entry, Quality and Completeness The district is the hub for data transmission, aggregation, processing, and storage. The district coordinator assigns case registry numbers for all notified deaths and retains files in secured storage/ database. The district coordinator also ensures that all data is properly anonymized so individual families or healthcare providers cannot be identified. This database will be utilized for aggregated analyses of all the deaths that have been reviewed. The coordinator and district HMIS/DHIS officer will also clean the data by verifying coding and other data-base errors that may need corrections. If necessary, the review committees will be notified of any problems including inconsistencies or inadequate reporting of certain items. The review committees will also be informed of differences encountered in the number of entries and asked to verify the counts or to determine the nature of the inconsistencies. 1.20. Data protection Access to the database should be passwordprotected, allowing only appointed personnel access. Back up files will be retained in secured, locked up places. Data from the database and deidentified case summaries will be kept and used in the analysis, while the original notification and review forms will be destroyed after 5 years. 1.21. Interpretation and Prioritization Findings from reviews are aggregated and coded aiming to identify common causes of death, groups at highest risk, contributing factors, and emerging data patterns, and to accordingly prioritize health problems to guide the public health response. This is the translation of MPDSR data into information meaningful for decisionmakers, the medical community, and