The national update was prepared and reviewed Dr Wangui Muthigani, Program ManagerMaternal and Newborn Health at Ministry of Health in Kenya. The update for Bungoma county was developed based on feedback from Mr Peter Ken Kaimenyi, Maternal and Newborn Health Technic al Advisor at MANI Project funded by UK Aid. 14 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination maternal and neonatal deaths. Additionally, the participation of other first-line specialists (hospital administrators, epidemiologists, information system specialists, health planners, M&E personnel) is very important. However, the support of government entities and policymakers, and local community leaders is also paramount. The engagement of households and communities as partners and beneficiaries of health care enhances the likelihood of success. Thus, all such key stakeholders should be part of the process. Lack of buy-in or participation from any key group can undermine the entire system and hinder progress. 1.6. Purpose of this protocol This protocol is based primarily on the WHO MDSR Technical Guide. This protocol provides practical guidance to establishing the MPDSR system in Pakistan in an efficient and effective way. • It standardizes the MPDSR approach enabling health authorities in Pakistan to set up MPDSR processes to strengthen surveillance, review, and response activities. • It emphasizes the enabling environment required for MPDSR implementation by clarifying the required structures and committees to be put in place, their composition, TORs, and modalities of operation at both facility and community levels. • It informs on standard operating procedures for reporting at each level, including data collection tools, data transmission and channels, frequency, feedback mechanisms, while stressing the need for institutionalizing and mainstreaming within existing reporting mechanisms. • It provides information of the ethical and legal aspects that need to be taken into consideration. • This guidance will be periodically reviewed and updated as the MPDSR system expands in Pakistan. 1.7. Who should use this Protocol The intended readership includes health professionals, health-care planners and managers, those who measure maternal, neonatal and perinatal mortality, and policy makers working in maternal and newborn health. Stakeholders who can drive change should be involved in all aspects and processes of setting up MPDSR to ensure that the recommended changes take place. 1.8. Goals and objectives of MPDSR The primary goal of MPDSR is to eliminate preventable maternal and perinatal mortality in Pakistan by obtaining and using information on each death to guide public health actions and