“qualitative, in-depth investigation of the causes of, and circumstances surrounding, maternal deaths which occur in health care facilities.” It is particularly concerned with tracing the path of the women who died, through the health care system and within the facility, to identify any avoidable or OPERATIONAL DEFINITIONS 1. Standards for improving quality of maternal and newborn care in health facilities WHO 2016. 6 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination remediable factors that could be changed to improve maternal care in the future. This information could be supplemented by data from the community, though this may not always be possible. i) Confidential Inquiry into Maternal Deaths, the review is carried out by a group of appointed Independent assessors who will use the same audit guidelines to review selected maternal and perinatal deaths (even if these have already been reviewed by the Facility audit team. j) Neonatal Death is the death of a baby within 28 days of birth. k) Perinatal Death: as defined in ICD-10 encompasses antepartum and intrapartum stillbirths and early neonatal deaths (deaths occurring during the first seven days of life), however, this Protocol uses the extended definition of the term “perinatal”, to refer to the perinatal period extending to four weeks after the delivery, as described in the WHO report on Making Every Baby Count (2016). l) Still Birth or fetal death: The ICD-10 defines a fetal death as “death prior to the complete expulsion or extraction from its mother of a product of conception, irrespective of the duration of pregnancy. The death is indicated by the fact that after such separation the fetus does not breathe or show any other evidence of life, such as beating of the heart, pulsation of the umbilical cord, or definite movement of voluntary muscles” For international comparative purposes. ICD classifies late fetal deaths(greater than 1000 g or after 28 weeks) and early fetal deaths (500 to 1000 g or 22-28 weeks). m) Zero reporting is an active process of notifying suspected maternal deaths; if none occurred during a given timeframe that fact must be reported. Zero reporting means there is an active process of notifying suspected maternal deaths, whether or not any occurred. If no maternal deaths occurred, a “zero” is captured in the data collection system rather than nothing at all. n) Woman of reproductive age is a women between the ages of 15 and