throughout the FAIR study. Tayyiba Wasim et al. Pak J Med Sci January February 2023 Vol. 39 No. 1 www.pjms.org.pk 297 Data Collection and Management: All pregnant women of gestational age <20 weeks in the participating units will be advised complete blood count. Those having haemoglobin >11g/dl, will have their serum ferritin levels checked. Pregnant women having serum ferritin <30µg/l will be counselled for enrolment into the study and informed consent will be taken after explaining the details of the study. They will be divided into two groups randomly. Therapeutic dose of IV iron will be advised to intervention group and prophylactic dose of oral iron (30-45 mg) will be given to the control group of pregnant women to be continued till delivery. All pregnant women will be followed up till delivery with the usual protocol of monthly visits till 28 weeks then fortnightly visits till 36 weeks and then weekly. Haemoglobin and serum ferritin in both arms will be measured at 28 weeks and 36 weeks of gestation. Development of preeclampsia, preterm birth, blood transfusion, fatigue score, birth weight along with cord blood haemoglobin and serum ferritin will be recorded. Data will be entered into an electronic database (computer software program ASP. NET MVC architecture data collection platform based on SQL 2014 for data normalization) has been purpose designed for the trial with defined multi level user access and separate case report forms for each study visit. The software platform ensures transparent randomisation, allows real-time data acquisition and smooth tracking of the enrolled participants to facilitate standardised, and synchronous data collection across all the study sites, enabling data quality checks and ensuring authenticity of data. Data Analysis: All the statistical analysis will be done on statistical package for social sciences (SPSS). Mean and standard deviation will be calculated for continuous variables like age, gestational age, haemoglobin, serum ferritin levels etc. Frequency and percentages will be calculated for categorical variables like gender. If data are not normally distributed then median will be used. Confounders like age, duration of disease and co morbidities will be controlled through multivariable analysis documented through a statistical analysis plan prepared before the outcome data per group are unblinded. Comparison of outcome will be tested by chi-square and student’s t-test. P value of <0.05 will be significant. Data Monitoring: Trial steering committee with an independent chair and membership including a patient representative will oversee the study.