500 per year; • Legal protection (indemnity) of all involved including the families, the health personnel and the facilities involved.24 1.11.3. Quality assurance The usefulness of the MPDSR system is dependent on the quality of data gathered and analysed. It is important that data collectors are properly trained to gather accurate data. It is also imperative that members of the committees at all levels are trained and conversant with the skills required to conduct quality death reviews. To ensure this, Pakistan will put in place a system of quality assessments of the reviews and have regular updates for the data collectors and reviewers. 24. Note: this does not mean no accountability (which, when necessary, can be conducted through usual channels). It simply means that information derived via the MPDSR process cannot be used punitively. In order to encourage informants and health workers to come forward and tell the truth any information derived through the review process must not be used in litigation. 18 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination FACILITY REVIEWS All facilities with the capacity to have an MDR/ MPDR committee (usually those with a delivery rate greater than 500 per year or “large facilities”) should establish one. This will include tertiary, teaching hospitals, and some DHQ hospitals in both the private and public sector. Smaller hospitals, maternity clinics or health centers (public or private facilities) including all setups that have a labour room to accommodate deliveries should have a coordinator for MPDSR to identify and collect data on all deaths. Cases of maternal/perinatal death from facilities without an in house MDR committee will be forwarded to the district committee for review. Depending on the capacity of the district and volume of deaths the district committee may operate within the DHQ hospital. The process for facility reviews is outlined below (reminder: deaths that occur in small facilities (e.g. fewer than 500 deliveries) or in facilities that have not yet established a review committee will be sent to the district committee for review. The district committee will be notified via form MDF 1-Notification Form (appendix 1). The steps of that process will be similar to the process for community based deaths which is covered in section 3). 1.12. Identification, Notification, Registration and Data Collection All staff in the facility should be alerted to report the death of any woman of reproductive age (WRA) that occurs