no effect on general health of a pregnant woman. However pregnancy results in hormonal, haemodynamic and haematological changes. These physiological changes need to be viewed as normal adaptations determined by nature. Increased total blood volume and haemostatic changes help to combat the hazards of haemorrhage at delivery.1 The increase is less in iron deficient women than in those with iron reserves. In some iron deficient women this inability to expand plasma volume may mask a decrease in haemoglobin concentration.2 The lowest normal haemoglobin in the healthy non-pregnant woman is defined as 12 g/dl. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that haemoglobin ideally should be maintained at or above 11.0 g/dl, and should not be allowed to fall below 10.5 g/dl in the second trimester.3 Pregnancy usually induces a slight increase (2–3 fl) in mean red cell volume (MCV), independent of folate status. This is sometimes enough to mask the microcytosis normally found in iron deficiency. Other causes of microcytic anaemia, such as thalassemia trait, the anaemia of chronic disease and inflammatory anaemia of infection are rarely confused with Iron deficiency anaemia (IDA) in pregnancy and are excluded by standard haematological investigations.4 Iron absorption during pregnancy is determined by the amount of iron in diet, its bioavailability (meal composition) and the changes in iron absorption that occur during pregnancy. Iron requirements are greater in pregnancy than in non-pregnant state. Although iron requirements are reduced in the 1st trimester because of absence of menstruation these raise steadily thereafter as high as ≥10 mg/day.5 The amounts that can be absorbed from even an optimal diet, however are less than the iron requirement in later pregnancy and a women must enter pregnancy with iron stores of >300 mg if she is to meet her requirement fully. This is more than most women possess especially in developing countries.6 Iron requirements are increased in pregnancy, especially in the 3rd trimester when they may be several times higher than at other stages of the life cycle, the net iron requirements for pregnancy are 840 mg approximately.7 Iron deficiency can be defined as that moment when body iron stores become depleted and a restricted supply of iron to various tissues becomes apparent. Iron deficiency is one of the most common nutritional deficiencies worldwide. A high proportion of women in both industrialised and developing countries become anaemic during pregnancy. Estimates from the J Ayub Med Coll Abbottabad 2011;23(2) http://www.ayubmed.edu.pk/JAMC/23-2/Nuzhat.pdf