meat. The interventions should start from earlier in childhood so that children grow healthy and not become deficient in the later part of their life. Fruits, vegetables and other sources of vitamin C should be added to the diet to meet the needs of growing children. Groups like young children, adolescent girls, women of reproductive age, pregnant and lactating women should be an area of focus for interventions [1]. Iron levels can be detected via blood works of Hemoglobin, Hematocrit, CBC, serum iron, ferritin, transferrin saturation and transferrin receptor. Iron supplements: Treatment for iron deficiency depends on age, health and specific cause of the deficiency. If the cause is related to dietary intake then increasing dietary sources of iron can help. Additionally, iron supplements are also prescribed in different settings. Citation: Mawani M, Ali SA, Bano G, Ali SA (2016) Iron Deficiency Anemia among Women of Reproductive Age, an Important Public Health Problem: Situation Analysis. Reprod Syst Sex Disord 5: 187. doi:10.4172/2161-038X.1000187 Page 3 of 6 Reprod Syst Sex Disord, an open access journal ISSN:2161-038X Volume 5 • Issue 3 • 1000187 Besides this, cases are followed at intervals for blood levels. There are several success stories of countries implementing interventions and getting a good outcome. One of them is of Thailand. During the year 1986 to 1996/7 Thailand was successful in decreasing anemia in pregnant women with the help of 500,000 trained volunteers to identify women in their early pregnancies and encouraging the use of antenatal services. They were provided with iron supplements and education on usage and importance. In addition, they were also treated for malaria and worms [3]. WHO recommends that in high-risk populations, iron supplements should be given to adolescents and women for 2 to 4 months per year to ensure that women have reasonable iron stores when they become pregnant [13]. In all the countries, iron needs in pregnancy should be considered for individual females and iron supplementations should be prescribed according to the need. In developing countries, it is easy to identify and treat cases of iron deficiency since access to health care is good [1]. It is important to check for the levels of hemoglobin 2-4 weeks after initial doses. It should be continued for at least 6 months after Hb concentrations have reached to normal levels in order to build iron stores. Intravenous iron should be considered in levels less than 90