women working in agriculture to provide information on and resources for homestead food production, such as kitchen gardens, dairy production, and egg and poultry production. This is important to improve dietary diversity. The agriculture and food sector will need to work closely with the private sector on food fortification, as well as the marketing and labelling of food products. The agriculture/food sector should also forge links with livelihood and income generation initiatives through agricultural and livestock extension workers, with a focus on engaging low-income women. Water, sanitation and hygiene sector: Interventions in the WASH sector are associated with improved health and nutrition in communities, including among women and children. These interventions involve improved sanitation facilities, access to improved and safe water supplies, and optimal handwashing practices. Women also benefit from having water points and safe sanitation facilities closer to home, as this reduces their time burden and the likelihood that they will experience harassment. The WASH sector will provide infrastructural support in terms of improved toilets and home water connections, provide resources such as soap and point-of-use water treatment, and conduct advocacy campaigns to improve domestic hygiene behaviours. For maternal nutrition, the WASH and health sectors will coordinate to ensure that health facilities which provide services for women have adequate water and sanitation facilities. Another important linkage between WASH and nutrition for women will involve ensuring that essential hygiene actions (EHA) are included in maternal, newborn and child health programmes, with information and messages provided through primary health care platforms. 45 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN Population welfare and women’s development sector: The population and women’s development sector will support interventions for women’s empowerment and income generation. It will link these efforts with the social protection and agriculture/food sectors, as well as using interventions that directly target women’s nutrition. The sector should use effective platforms to target low-income women, such as existing community groups – including women’s groups, farmers’ groups and selfhelp groups. Education sector: The education sector plays an important role for adolescents in terms of keeping girls in school, providing health and nutrition education, and using schools and madrassas as service delivery platforms for nutrition interventions. These aspects are covered by the Pakistan Adolescent Nutrition Strategy. For specific maternal nutrition needs, the education sector will facilitate and ensure that curricula for medical and nursing students at the undergraduate and graduate levels include adequate maternal nutrition topics and training,