is 22.2 per cent (the consumption of IFA tablets by women who received them during their last pregnancy). Moving forward, however, IFA tablets will only be provided to anaemic women. (e) There is no baseline because multiple micronutrient supplementation has not yet been introduced at scale in Pakistan. As nutrition is also a foundation of SDG 3, “Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages”, the Maternal Nutrition Strategy is expected to contribute to SDG 3 as well as SDG 3, particularly SDG 3’s targets to “reduce maternal mortality” and “meet family planning needs with modern methods of contraception.” The Maternal Nutrition Strategy is further expected to contribute to SDG 5, “Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls”, with its emphasis on legislation related to maternal health and nutrition. 34 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN Box 2. Strategic areas and sub-strategies of the Maternal Nutrition Strategy 2022–2027 Strategic area 1. Create and sustain an enabling environment for maternal nutrition Sub-strategy 1.1. Strengthen policy and coordination for the evidence-based and equity-based inclusion of maternal nutrition interventions Sub-strategy 1.2. Establish and strengthen financing and resource allocations for maternal nutrition Sub-strategy 1.3. Strengthen advocacy and awareness of maternal nutrition by designing social and behaviour change (SBC) strategies that target different audiences Strategic area 2. Programme and implement maternal nutrition interventions with equity and at scale Sub-strategy 2.1. Design and implement maternal nutrition interventions in the health sector Sub-strategy 2.2. Design and implement maternal nutrition interventions in other sectors Sub-strategy 2.3. Strengthen preparedness and response for maternal nutrition in disaster-prone districts and emergency situations Strategic area 3. Guide evidence-based programming for maternal nutrition through monitoring, evaluation, accountability and learning (MEAL) Sub-strategy 3.1. Strengthen routine monitoring, evaluation and accountability for maternal nutrition Sub-strategy 3.2. Promote a learning agenda on maternal nutrition for continued programme guidance 3.2 Strategic areas and sub-strategies This section describes what needs to be done to improve maternal nutrition in Pakistan, guided by global guidance and evidence for each strategic area and sub-strategy. Strategic area 1. Create and sustain an enabling environment for maternal nutrition Sub-strategy 1.1. Strengthen policy and coordination for the evidence-based and equity-based inclusion of maternal nutrition interventions While political, institutional and policy processes to address maternal nutrition in Pakistan are strong as part of the 1,000 days+ approach, a commitment is required to implementing comprehensive approaches to improve maternal nutrition with equity and