Response (MPDSR). It is an evidence based tool for quality of care and is direly needed for guiding the healthcare delivery system in Pakistan. As envisaged in the National Health Vision 2016-25 and the following RMNCAH&N strategic costed action plans, quality of care remains a cornerstone of our national efforts for improving health outcomes in general and maternal and newborn health status in particular. Under the country’s global commitments like SDGs, we have pledged ourselves towards achieving significant reductions in maternal and newborn mortalitywhich is not possible without addressing the missing link of quality of care. The World Health Organization has provided global guidelines and tools on quality of care for the countries to adopt and adapt as per their needs. I am pleased to note that the Ministry has developed the National MPDSR Guidelines and training material aligned with the global guidance. I firmly believe that this document will prove to be particularly useful for departments of health in the provinces and areas/regions in their efforts to reduce maternal and newborn mortality. I highly acknowledge and congratulate my team at the Ministry together with the partners including WHO for their relentless support during the development process of this important guideline document. I would further recommend all concerned to translate these guidelines into practical actions on ground for achieving the desired results of improved quality of care for mothers and newborns at all levels across Pakistan. 3 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) The demographic and health surveys reported an alarmingly high maternal mortality ratio (276 per 100,000 live births; 2006-07) and neonatal mortality rate (55 per 1000 live births; 2012-13) with the later remaining stagnant over the last few decades. Every 37 minutes, a woman dies in Pakistan while giving birth to a child and almost two thirds of under-five deaths occur in the early neonatal period (first 7 days of life).A major proportion of these deaths could be prevented by timely intervention and by ensuring good quality of care during pregnancy and at the time of delivery. Despite the tragic status of maternal and perinatal Indicators and the fact that Pakistan contributes substantially towards the regional and global maternal and perinatal mortality; the exact magnitude of maternal deaths is not precisely known. Reporting and tracking maternal and perinatal deaths and response to reduce preventable deaths remains the major challenge in Pakistan. Maternal and