programs in 70 countries over the past three decades shows that there are limited examples of their successful utilization. In countries where the TBA’s have been adequately supervised the strategy has shown some positive results. In other words for effective functioning, TBAs require constant supervision, more than other health care providers do. A different policy approach is now required which is comprehensive and comprises of short and long term goals. The time has come for a critical evaluation of all safe motherhood programs, both in the public and private sector, be conducted to form the foundation of a national safe motherhood strategy. In the meantime, the potential strategy of preparing a cadre of appropriately trained midwives for maternal care during pregnancy, labor and the postpartum period should be pursued. In Europe particularly Sweden, even before the advent of modern technology, professionally trained midwives helped reduce maternal morbidity and mortality. In Pakistan midwifery is a neglected profession. Though there are more than 10,000 nurses who have been trained in midwifery, very few are practicing as midwives7. Moreover their training, especially in skills, is deficient. The lady health visitors (LHVs), a cadre of health care providers who are trained to deliver women in the community, do practice midwifery both in health facilities and in the community but their exact numbers are not known. Their training too, especially skills’ training leaves much to be desired. Moreover back up support to them is lacking. Midwifery training needs to be geared towards competency based skills. Midwives need to be motivated to work in the rural areas and their roles and career pathways well defined. They should, as a short-term measure, supervise existing trained TBAs in their work. As a longMaternal Morbidity And Mortality Pak Armed Forces Med J 2017; 67 (4): 635-40 640 term strategy TBA’s should be phased out and replaced by midwives. Nevertheless, no matter how skilled the attendant is at the time of delivery, very little can be done when life-threatening complications arise and there is no access to emergency care. Recent studies done to evaluate the status of emergency obstetric care (EmOC) in selected districts of Sindh have shown that there is an extreme shortage of health care facilities providing EmOC8. In those that are present, majority have multiple deficiencies. The deficiencies identified include lack of drugs, essential supplies, equipment and services as well as inadequate knowledge and skills of health