has only closed 56 per cent of the gender gap in the country.29 Different dimensions of women’s agency – such as their age at marriage, formal education, decision-making power relative to men, and control over resources – have an impact on women’s and children’s nutrition.30 Early marriage increases the risk of adolescent pregnancy, which has an acute effect on the health and well-being of young women, bringing with it nutritional risks, higher risks of poor pregnancy and poor birth outcomes, and potentially contributing to high fertility rates. In terms of agency, women have varying levels of control over decisions and participation in decision-making. This can impact their purchasing power, their ability to make decisions for themselves and their families, and the amount of food available to them when resources are scarce. Women’s level of education also has a significant impact on their health-related knowledge and care-seeking practices. In Pakistan, women’s education attainment remains low. Women are disproportionately engaged in agricultural work in Pakistan, which can have both positive and negative implications for nutrition. The energy-intensive nature of agricultural labour and exposure to pathogens from wastewater irrigation and livestock can be detrimental to women’s nutrition and health. The time-intensive aspects of labour can detract from the time they spend taking care of themselves and caring for children. Women’s employment in agriculture can influence intra-household decision-making and resource allocations, with a potential positive impact on women’s control over decisions related to food and health care. At the same time, the poor quality of health services, diseases, a lack of adequate sanitation and hygiene, and the lack of women’s empowerment can undermine these potential positive impacts on nutrition outcomes.31 2.3 Policy context for maternal nutrition A strong emerging enabling environment has the potential to shape political, institutional and policy processes for improving maternal nutrition in Pakistan. Nutrition has been positioned within the national development agenda with a high level of political commitment, and both federal and provincial governments are ready to invest in maternal nutrition. Pakistan is committed to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Scaling up Nutrition (SUN) movement. Improving maternal nutrition will be key to achieving SDG 2 to end hunger and all forms of malnutrition, SDG 3 to ensure good health and well-being for all, and SDG 5 to achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. 28 PHC Global, Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination,