health and nutrition practices. 44 MATERNAL NUTRITION STRATEGY 2022–2027 PAKISTAN Social protection sector: Social protection schemes and benefits are essential to support vulnerable households and women with in-kind support, such as food baskets and fortified foods, or with cash support, which may be unconditional or conditional. The use of conditional cash transfers (CCTs) has been found to improve women’s knowledge of health and nutrition, their control over resources and their decision-making power. Conditional cash transfers also stand to increase household food expenditure and improve household dietary diversity, including the increased consumption of animal source foods, fruits and vegetables. At present, social protection measures only reach 2 per cent of the women in Pakistan. The Ehsaas social protection programme must ensure that women in low-income households are linked to all the types of benefits that they are eligible for, as well as forging links with the health sector to develop conditional cash transfers for pregnant and lactating women using soft conditionalities for health care utilization and nutrition practices. Subsidies for food should be expanded, as should the inclusion of nutritious foods – such as lentils, fortified staples and oils – in social safety nets for lowincome women. Effective social and behaviour change communication for maternal nutrition will be incorporated into social protection programmes and platforms. It will be important to engage men through advocacy and awareness raising on social protection schemes and on the support that men can provide. This is essential given prevailing gender dynamics in terms of decision-making, the use of resources and intra-household food allocation. Agriculture and food sector: In addition to food policies and regulations to control supply-side factors in food systems – including the marketing and labelling of unhealthy foods – the agriculture and food sector can promote the consumption of healthy foods and fortified foods by women and their families. As highlighted in Pakistan’s Food Fortification Strategy, efforts will be needed to reach the women and families who are not accessing fortified foods because they purchase goods from small informal oil crushers and chakki mills. Agricultural extension services should target low-income households, women-headed households and women working in agriculture to provide information on and resources for homestead food production, such as kitchen gardens, dairy production, and egg and poultry production. This is important to improve dietary diversity. The agriculture and food sector will need to work closely with the private sector on food fortification, as