using ICD-MM/ICD-PM as required. i. focal person /coordinator prepares file and sets up committee meeting 4. MPDSR committee meeting at district / facility level a. summary of case presented b. case reviewed : avoidability ascertained c. recommendations /response plan of action developed d. MDR 4 form filled and sent to Provincial MPDSR committee 5. Implement recommendation/response plan at relevant level 6. Aggregate and analyze the data at provincial level and compile reports to inform policy and programs. 7. Provide feedback to facilities and districts and follow up on recommendations 29 National Guidelines on Maternal & Perinatal Death Surveillance and Response (MPDSR) 8. Follow-up and technical support from the national MPDSR committee. There are three levels at which these steps listed above are conducted: 1. National – the first two (1-2) and last steps (5-8) 2. Provincial the first two (1-2) and last steps (5-8) 3. District, health facility and communityall steps ( 3 -7 ) will apply At each level, there should be a committee responsible for tracing, reviewing, reporting and responding to maternal deaths. 1.26. Committees MPDSR committees need to be set up at the various levelsfacility, district, province, and national. The composition and sample terms of reference of each committee is set out below. 1.26.1. Large Facility Committee The frequency of committee reviews will depend on the number of deaths. In large facilities where maternal deaths are frequent, the committee will ideally meet at least weekly to review, analyze and discuss all deaths that have been reported in the facility. If deaths are less frequent, the committee conducts meeting within 24 hours of every reported death. The recommendations of the committee may require immediate actions to be implemented through adoption of clinical audit and best practices to promptly address the 3rd delay. Lower level PHC facilities may link to existing MPDSR community structures or liaise with tertiary facilities in their catchment areas. Sample Committee Composition: Chaired by the Facility Director, the committee includes M/S, facility-in-charge, gynecologist/pediatrician/neonatologist, blood bank manager, anesthetist, pharmacist etc. The committee composition can be adapted according to mode of governance in each province and level of facility. The MPDSR coordinator assigned in the facility is responsible for confirming a maternal death, filling MDF1 to notify to the district coordinator, filling out MDR2 tool for data collection, organizing the meetings, and presenting the case to a secretary who will fill out the MDF4 for onward transmission