The nutrition-specific components of this package need to be institutionalized and provided as part of the Universal Health Care Benefits Package, which is guided by localized evidence on Disease Control Priorities (DCP3), and integrated into existing primary health care in Pakistan. This package of interventions is presented in detail below (see strategic area 2, sub-strategy 2.1). Intra-sectoral and multi-sectoral coordination: Both intra-sectoral and multi-sectoral coordination are required to secure the commitment, leadership and engagement of policy makers, programmers and technical experts to address maternal nutrition. The Maternal, Infant, Young Child and Adolescent Nutrition (MIYCAN) Technical Advisory Group (TAG) is an established platform at the federal level to provide technical direction for the 1,000 days+ approach and to ensure that evidencebased interventions are promoted across the life cycle, including for maternal nutrition. Provincial level chapters of the MIYCAN TAG should be implemented in each province, with updated terms of reference for maternal nutrition. These terms of reference will outline stakeholders’ roles and responsibilities, activities with timelines and outcomes, and measures for monitoring and ensuring accountability for maternal nutrition actions. The Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) Secretariat enables multi-sectoral coordination and linkages for nutrition across sectors. This platform should be used to ensure policy and programme alignment and consistency within the health system, with other systems – namely agriculture/food, water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH), education and social protection – and between development partners responsible for delivering nutrition-specific and nutrition-sensitive interventions to improve maternal nutrition. Legislation and enforcement: There are several strategies at the policy level that can be implemented, enforced and monitored to improve maternal health and nutrition outcomes. The WHO’s guidelines to prevent early pregnancy and poor reproductive outcomes among adolescents in developing countries recommend several strategies that have a direct bearing on maternal health and nutrition. These include promoting girls’ education and keeping girls in school, enforcing the legal age of marriage of 18 years old or older, and reducing pregnancy before the age of 20.34 These strategies are covered in the Pakistan Adolescent Nutrition Strategy and should be enforced and monitored. Effective social protection legislation can also have a positive impact on maternal nutrition outcomes. For women in the workplace, maternity protection laws need to be enforced and monitored in order 33 World Health Organization, ‘Maximizing Gains for Maternal and Child Health’, Preconception Care Policy Brief, WHO, Geneva, 2013; World Health Organization, Recommendations on Postnatal Care for the Mother and