reviews are aggregated and coded aiming to identify common causes of death, groups at highest risk, contributing factors, and emerging data patterns, and to accordingly prioritize health problems to guide the public health response. This is the translation of MPDSR data into information meaningful for decisionmakers, the medical community, and the public. Personnel involved in the analysis of aggregated data should have appropriate epidemiological skills. If these skills are lacking, training or other 24 Government of Pakistan Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination technical support should be arranged in advance. Interpretation of the findings should focus on aspects that will lead to prevention. When recommendations are made they should include information on immediate responses, subgroups at highest risk, identifying contributing factors for maternal deaths, assessing the emerging data patterns, and prioritizing the most important health problems to assist the public health response. 1.22. Response based on recommendations Findings from reviews should lead to actions to prevent similar deaths, both at health facilities and within the community. This the most crucial part of the process and the one that is quite often lacking. Importantly, it is not sufficient to count deaths and calculate mortality rates, or even to identify systemic problems contributing to these deaths. A review is only useful if it leads to action based on findings. Response can be immediate, periodic, or long-term, and there is no need to wait for aggregated data to begin implementing immediate actions. Therefore, a response plan of action (appendix5) should be developed in each committee to facilitate those actions that can be taken immediately and to streamline the recommendation process for longer-term responses: Immediate: Findings from reviews of nearly every death can lead to immediate actions to prevent similar deaths by identifying gaps that can be addressed quickly in both health facilities and communities. Deaths in health facilities often indicate that qualityof-care improvements are needed. Periodic: Monthly, quarterly, or semiannual reviews (depending on numbers) of aggregated findings should take place at the district level. These reviews may show a pattern of problems or highlight geographical areas with higher volumes of deaths. Such findings should lead to a more comprehensive response to address common problems across multiple facilities or communities. Long-term: At the national or provincial level a longer-term strategic plan should be developed to focus on key priorities identified in the districts or geographical areas where more deaths are occurring. Guiding