the 2nd and 3rd trimesters, which is in agreement with the study conducted by Mah-e-Munir et al20. Their study revealed that iron deficiency was the most frequent cause of anaemia. In another study conducted by Bondevik et al21 in Nepal, about 76.6% of pregnant women were found anaemic. Approximately 81.3% of anaemia was due to iron deficiency. Low birth weight was especially associated with low haemoglobin level in pregnancy. Serum ferritin levels in our subjects decreased significantly in all the three trimesters as compared to controls. This is in agreement with the results reported by other studies.22–25 Van den Broek and Letsky26 opined that a ferritin value of 30 ηg/ml or less was the best indicator of iron deficiency in pregnant women. Applying a cutoff value of 30 ηg/ml for iron-deficiency in that study 23% of anaemic pregnant women were deficient in iron, one third of anaemic subjects in that study were also deficient in Vitamin B12, while another one third were deficient in folate. While determining the iron status of pregnant women in our study it was observed that iron level decreased in all the three trimesters as compared to the controls and fall was markedly significant (p<0.001) in the 2nd and 3rd trimesters. We observed the values of serum TIBC and UIBC (un-saturated iron binding capacity) rising throughout the pregnancy, with more pronounced increase in UIBC as the pregnancy advanced to term. Our results are thus in agreement with those of Lee et al.27 In a study by Monawarul-Islam et al28 biochemical investigations on iron deficiency and nutritional status were carried out in a group of 130 women in the 2nd or 3rd trimester of pregnancy and 42 control non-pregnant women. Anaemia was present in 46.1% of pregnant women. Iron deficiency with and without anaemia as judged from serum transferrin saturation was evident in 59.2% of pregnant women with an incidence of 70.3% in 3rd trimester. Haemoglobin concentration and haematocrit, because of their low cost and quick assessment, are most commonly used to screen for iron deficiency; these measures reflect the amount of functional iron in the body. But limitation is that changes in haemoglobin concentration and haematocrit occur only at the late stages of iron deficiency, so both the tests are late indicators of iron deficiency; nevertheless these tests are essential for determining iron deficiency anaemia. Serum ferritin concentration is an early indicator of the status of