were collected. Guests visiting temporarily were excluded. Using standard statistical techniques for estimating sample size in population-based surveys, the PBS calculated the sample size of 11180 adults (>18 years of age), spread across all four provinces {based on prevalence 34%, design effect 4 (d=margin of error 4%), level of confidence 95% non-response 3%}. To increase the sample size because of the convenience of getting a larger sample size in these regions, the sample was doubled in Sindh and Punjab. In order to identify psychiatric disorders in the study population, the Mini International Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) schedule Version 7.0.228 was used. The MINI is a structured diagnostic interview tool used to assess, document and confirm the presence of common psychiatric disorders in community-based epidemiological studies. The MINI is compatible with both DSM-5 (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fifth edition) and the ICD-10 (International Classification of Diseases, tenth revision)29,30,31. The MINI has built-in diagnostic algorithms that produce diagnoses that are in alignment with the DSM-5 and ICD-10. When compared to other instruments, the MINI was compact, simple to use, efficient in terms of administration time, valid and reliable, and helpful in both clinical and community contexts. The MINI was translated into Urdu, the national and most widely used language in Pakistan. It is spoken in all provinces of Pakistan. Although suicidality is not included as a All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted July 8, 2024. ; https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.07.08.24310056 doi: medRxiv preprint 4 diagnostic entity in different classifications of psychiatric disorders, but this predictor of psychiatric mortality is being assessed through the module-B of MINI. We used the the module-B of MINI to assess the different aspects of suicidal behaviours in detail that is specifically helpful in predicting suicidal attempt. The Sheehan Disability Scale32 was used to assess disability due to mental disorders, in three areas including family life and home responsibilities, work and social life. Dow University of Health Sciences translated and piloted all study instruments used in NPMS. For quality assurance the process of back translation was adopted in which conceptual translation of MINI in Urdu language was literally back translated into English by a thirdparty linguist and any deviation from the original version were discussed and