at Hyderabad, Lahore and Peshawar with a total of 2000 beds. These hospitals had no mental health professionals and were managed by medical officers only. These hospitals were called "Mad Houses" and patients were often brought in chains. This went on for a number of years until the government decided to establish the first psychiatric units within teaching hospitals like the Jinnah Postgraduate Medical Centre, Karachi (in Sindh Province) and Government Mayo Hospital, Lahore (in Punjab Province) back in 1965 and 1967 respectively. Over time, it was realized that there was a need for development of individual psychiatric units in all government hospitals which were attached with medical colleges(12). Significant improvement in mental health services was witnessed especially in Lahore where the old Lahore Mental Hospital was re-designated as a full institute named Government Hospital for Psychiatric Diseases in 1996, which was later upgraded to Punjab Institute of Mental Health, Lahore in 2002. Sir Cowasji Institute at Hyderabad was elevated to a teaching hospital and major teaching hospitals were upgraded. Peshawar also made some progress over the years, while Quetta (Baluchistan) lagged behind in progress. Mental health in Private Sector: Many small psychiatric hospitals opened in private sector throughout the country which were run by non-psychiatrists and allied mental health professionals. A number of such units in teaching hospitals were established, but had shortage of mental health professionals for these units. Karachi (Sindh) has shown significant progress in private sector with active psychiatric units (12). 5.3 Cultural Practices for Mental Health: A shaman in Pakistan is popularly known as "baba" or "pir". The other type of healer which is a religious healer is known as "sufi" who does not fall into the category of shamans but is well respected in the community and brings relief through holy verses and some other religiously sanctioned rituals. They are the disciples of saints and a large number of people have faith in their healing powers, hence shrines and other holy places are flocked by the masses, irrespective of educational or ethnic background, seeking cure especially for mental illness. It is also believed that Sufi saints were effective healers and even after their death had spiritual influence by virtue of which they can cure or provide relief. The shamans however, have no prescribed qualifications; their spiritual powers are either conferred upon or acquired through meditation, elaborate religious 18 rituals or lengthy spiritual training. The