Health Sciences translated and piloted all study instruments used in NPMS. For quality assurance the process of back translation was adopted in which conceptual translation of MINI in Urdu language was literally back translated into English by a thirdparty linguist and any deviation from the original version were discussed and reconciled. We hired field workers preferably with a background in psychology/sociology/social work or related fields to conduct the in-person interviews. We provided systematic and thorough training in the administration of the study tools and in how to follow the survey methodology to the field workers. Pre & post training tests were used for quality assurance. In order to ensure the collection of high-quality data, a reliable three-tier monitoring system was adopted that included spot checks, supervised field trips, and weekly and monthly review meetings. Every day, the data gathered from each location were uploaded to a central data pool. The final dataset was created by compiling and cleaning the collected data. The current or point prevalence was calculated for all psychiatric disorder while life-time prevalence was calculated for all-psychiatric morbidities, mood disorders (F30–F39), psychotic disorders (F20–F29), neurotic and stress-related disorders (F40–F48), other anxiety disorders (F41) and panic disorder (F41.0). The all-psychiatric morbidity was defined as a disorder that was identified by the MINI instrument and that fell under the ICD-10 Diagnostic Criteria for Research (DCR) (F10–F19, F20–F29, F30–F39, and F40–F48). Tobacco related psychological conditions are not included in the definition of psychiatric morbidity so their prevalence rates were not calculated. Although suicidality is also not included as an ICD category it is analyzed as it a major psychiatric “condition” and a leading cause of mortality from psychiatric disorders, so its data is important for our country. Because of the unequal probability of selection due to more data being collected from Sindh and Punjab and also due to the nonresponse rate, we computed weighted prevalence estimates of psychiatric morbidities as percentage and confidence intervals (CIs). We used binary and multivariate logistic regression with normalised weights to investigate the relationship between psychiatric disorders as a dependent variable and several socio-demographic characteristics (gender, age, education, marital status, occupation, income, religion and geographic location) as independent variables. The risk of developing a psychiatric disease for each participant in the selected group was compared to the risk in the reference group using adjusted odds ratios that were generated using the model. All analyses were performed