have been underestimated, as poor mental health has widespread implications, and is often labeled under other headings;for mental disorders often manifest sometimes earlier than in adulthood, with a wide range of consequences in health, learning, work ethics, dysfunctional relationships, criminality, private and public violence, and stigma. It is unfortunate that widespread emergencies like COVID-19 are likely to escalate the risk, prevalence, and recurrence of mental disorders and worsen mental health in all populations. The conceptual framework for public mental health integrates multiple perspectives into a comprehensive agenda for future action. The practice of Public Mental Health (PMH) employs a population-based approach for reducing mental disorders and promoting mental well-being by delivering levels of PMH interventions as needed by the population. This approach recognises that a wide assortment of indicators at the individual, household, and community levels contribute to or detract from mental health and well-being. The World Psychiatric Association's Action Plan for 2020-23 defines emerging needs and priorities in some particular areas of public mental health from a global perspective. Given that only a small percentage of the world's population receives treatment for mental disorders, there is an urgent need to recognise, promote and elevate mental health as public health need. Mental Health, Mental Well-being, Public Mental health, World Psychiatric Association The 21st century has witnessed several changes in the 1 perception and management practices of mental health. It is indeed a momentous time and opportunity, as Psychiatry has progressed from asylums to communities and now to home 2 settings. There has been an increase in awareness and, to a degree, acceptance of mental health problems, with a conceptual shift in practice from "treating madness" to "managing mental health problems." Current epidemiological evidence and appreciation of sociological domains of mental disorders, as well as scientific advances in genetics, diagnostic innovations such as imaging, and novel treatment approaches, are instilling a great deal of optimism amongst practitioners of psychiatry in current 3 times. There is also a special focus on the latest treatments for marginalised and special communities, including children, adolescents, women and displaced persons. Finally, there has been an increase in awareness among patients, users, and healthcare workers about treatment programs, and professionals are also accepting them as important and key stakeholders. It is encouraging to see that healthcare professionals are exploring new ways to improve the quality of mental health care by improving cost-effectiveness and encouraging innovation in care