in 2008, while 6 % of community-based inpatient psychiatric units and community residential facilities had such a review. 100% of mental hospitals and 5% of inpatient psychiatric units & community residential facilities have had at least one day training on human rights protection of patients in the last two years. Domain 2: Mental Health Services A national mental health authority exists which provides advice to the government on mental health policies and legislation. The mental health authority also is involved in service planning, service management and co-ordination and in monitoring and quality 10 assessment of mental health services. Mental health services are not organized in terms of catchment/service areas. There are 3729 outpatient mental health facilities available in the country, of which 1% is for children and adolescents only. These facilities treat 343.34 users per 100,000 general population. Of all users treated in mental health outpatient facilities, 69% are female and 46% are children or adolescents. The users treated in outpatient facilities are primarily diagnosed with neurotic, stress related and somatoform disorders (33%) and mood disorders (30%). The average number of contacts per user is 9.31. Forty-six percent of outpatient facilities provide follow-up care in the community, while 1% has mental health mobile teams. In terms of available interventions, 120% of users have received one or more psychosocial interventions in the past year. 33% of mental health outpatient facilities had at last one psychotropic medicine of each therapeutic class (anti-psychotic, antidepressant, mood stabilizer, anxiolytic, and antiepileptic medicines) available in the facility or a near-by pharmacy all year round. Day treatment facilities are not available in the country. Six hundred and twenty four (624) Community-based psychiatric inpatient units are available in the country for a total of 1.926 beds per 100,000 population. 1% of these beds in community-based inpatient units are reserved for children and adolescents only. 75% of admissions to community-based psychiatric inpatient units are female and 18% are children/adolescents. The diagnoses of admissions to community-based psychiatric inpatient were primarily from the following two diagnostic groups Mood [affective] disorders (46%) and neurotic, stress related and somatoform disorders (32%). On average patients spend 17 days per discharge. 1-20% patients in community-based psychiatric inpatient units received one or more psychosocial interventions in the last year. 34% of community-based psychiatric inpatient units had at least one psychotropic medicine of each therapeutic class (anti-psychotic, antidepressant, mood stabilizer, anxiolytic, and antiepileptic medicines) available in the