of limited budget and specialist resources. The department highlighted the long-term societal and individual impacts of mental health issues and the need of the hour to collaborate and work on this. The department expressed interest in addressing training gaps for psychologists and primary care providers, as well as tackling stigma among healthcare professionals. They showed readiness to implement the MHPSS model in AJK and appreciated the importance of involving all government stakeholders to ensure sustainability. 4. Department of Health, Government of Gilgit Baltistan The Health Department, GB highlighted that despite a huge burden of mental disorders, lack of resources has limited the implementation of various MHPSS initiatives. They acknowledged that the MHPSS model appears highly relevant for GB and stressed the need for support from the federal government and development partners. Some efforts include a WHO-supported mhGAP training activity, and services by organizations like Rupani Foundation and Aga Khan Services, some awareness sessions were organized by the population welfare department etc. They expressed their concerns about governmental restrictions on hiring clinical psychologists, and expressed interest in multisectoral collaboration & technical support from MoPD&SI to strengthen MHPSS services in GB. 5. Health Department, Sindh No comments provided 6. Health Department, Punjab No comments provided 7. Chief Commissionerate for Afghan Refugees (CCAR) CCAR acknowledged the need to provide mental health support to all refugees and highlighted its role in policy and project implementation for Afghan refugees. CCAR is collaborating with GIZ to implement the MHPSS model in KP, but they expressed concern over the short-term nature of funded projects, which lack sustainability and face multiple implementation challenges —including health service delivery, institutional capacity, training and skills, and data gaps. They appreciated leadership role and coordination efforts by the MoPD&SI, suggested the importance of tailoring the model to regional needs during scalability, and recommended integrating it with specific digital mental health services for Afghan refugees. 8. Balochistan Institute of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences (BIPBS), Quetta In 2020-21, Baluchistan Institute of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences collaborated with UNICEF and trained over 1,200 dedicated health professionals, including doctors, paramedics, nurses, Lady 3 www.mhpss.pk PPMI Complex mhspcu@gmail.com H8/1 Islamabad Health Workers (LHWs), and Community Health Workers (CHWs)—across the District of Jaffarabad, Baluchistan, as part of a Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) initiative. 9. International Medical Corps (IMC) IMC shared that their PRM and UNHCR training projects have concluded, while current collaborations with UNHCR and GIZ