Sufi saints were effective healers and even after their death had spiritual influence by virtue of which they can cure or provide relief. The shamans however, have no prescribed qualifications; their spiritual powers are either conferred upon or acquired through meditation, elaborate religious 18 rituals or lengthy spiritual training. The number of practicing shamans is very high, only in Karachi, there are about 400 such practitioners. They practice at their residences, clinics, shrines or mosques and explain mental illness on the basis of possession by the evil spirit, by jinni or by magical influences cast by enemies (13). The treatment given includes amulets, spiritually treated water, burning incense or reciting incantations(14). In Pakistan, where there is a dearth of psychiatrists, prevalent stigma for mental illness, poor socio-economic conditions and vast majority of population living in rural areas depend more on shamanic treatment who have conferred benefits to patients suffering from grief reactions, reactive depression, psychosomatic disorders and anxiety neurosis(15). Only 5-10% of the patients reach the psychiatrist mainly for the reasons of stigma, low awareness and cost factors (11). Many shamans in Pakistan also act as medicine-men and would prescribe some medications. Despite resentment by the mental health professionals, the shamans enjoy the acceptance of large masses of people who approach them for their mental health problems with less fear of stigma, low cost and easy accessibility. The current number of psychiatrists cannot effectively deal with the magnitude of mental health problems existing in the country and hence these shamans are sharing the burden though unofficially and unethically. A recent doctoral study, made the recommendation of collaboration between shamans and psychiatrists may go a long way in addressing the mental health problems of the country – as part of task-sharing. However, this needs regulation and monitoring without which this is liable to be abused leading to, untoward incidents eg adverse reactions to drugs, delays in getting appropriate medical treatment in cases of organic pathologies and even death during the rituals (16). However there is evidence that shamans act as good counsellors and psychotherapists and can be very useful for masses keeping in mind the dearth of professionals for a very large population. 19 6. AWARENESS AND UNDERSTANDING OF THE PUBLIC ABOUT MNS DISORDERS The reach and accessibility of MNS care requires further expansion as indicated in previous sections. To help this there have been some efforts both by the public