estimate of the different psychiatric disorders it will be difficult in Pakistan to implement an affordable, egalitarian, integrated, and data-driven mental healthcare strategy. There is growing evidence of a link between mental health conditions and non-communicable diseases (NCDs)20. The agenda-2030 of United Nation Organization (UNO) to achieve sustainable Developmental Goals (SDG) also focuses on NCD and has included mental health (SDG # 3) and mental disabilities (SDG # 4,8,10 & 11)21. To achieve this agenda of UNO, mental health is being integrated into the future health policies of Pakistan (National Health Vision)22. Many legislators, experts, and policymakers believe that burden, distribution, and pattern data at the national level is necessary for developing and implementing evidencebased mental healthcare programmes. Considering the aforementioned facts, the Pakistan Psychiatric Society (PPS), an representative elected body of Pakistani psychiatrists, planned to conduct the National Psychiatric Morbidity Survey (NPMS) in a representative sample from Pakistani population, to investigate the prevalence rates of psychiatric disorders and their socioeconomic correlations and disability levels23. We used a sound methodology that addresses some of the shortcomings of the previous work. The data of this survey would help in planning and improving mental health in Pakistan. The findings of NPMS are being described in this article, with a focus on the following objectives: • To assess the prevalence of common psychiatric disorders in a representative sample in Pakistan. • To assess the relationship between psychiatric morbidity and different demographic variables (gender, age, education, employment, residence and income). • To evaluate suicidal ideation and behaviours. Methodology All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted July 8, 2024. ; https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.07.08.24310056 doi: medRxiv preprint 3 A concise synopsis of the NPMS survey methodology can be found at (https://pakistanpsychiatricsurvey.org/)24 and a summary is given here. The survey was overseen by an Executive Committee of Survey which included national and international experts. The Committee had diverse expertise and included, professionals, members of PPS, epidemiologists, subject experts in mental health, demographers, and statisticians. The approval of NPMS was given by the National Bioethics Committee of Pakistan (letter No. 4-87/NBC-268/171/370, dated November 11, 2017) as well as the institutional review board of the Dow University of Health Sciences. To maintain uniformity in the datagathering process, the Executive