psychiatry has been called into question, as some health professionals argue about the effectiveness of common psychotropic drugs. Some reports have prompted a broad critique of psychotropic medication in the scientific fraternity and media. It is true that any collation of treatments for diverse illnesses can only be qualitative, and it is thus unfair to rank drugs based on their limited use. Several studies have concluded that, in the long run, psychiatric drugs are no less 14 effective than most other medical drugs. Mental health is integral to public health, and mental wellbeing is critical to having a good quality of life, and the ability to 15 cope with the tides of life. It protects against physical ailment, social inequity, and morbid lifestyle choices. There What is Public Mental Health? January March 2023 J Pak Psychiatr Soc Volume 20 Issue 01 PAGE 06 Furthermore, the twenty-first century has seen many changes in the practice of psychiatry, with a greater emphasis on the prevention of mental disorders and the promotion of well19 being. As a result, there are new and emerging trends in current practice, with a transformation in treatment approaches "from madness" to "mental health," with a focus on prevention of these disorders and advancement of wellbeing. In summary, the PMH conceptual framework integrates the perspectives of clinicians', academics', and researchers' advocating a public mental health approach to mental health practice. There are robust public mental health interventions available for managing mental disorders, preventing their linked consequences, and also preventing these disorders from developing while enhancing mental well-being. Public Mental Health is gradually gaining prominence amongst healthcare workers and in communities worldwide. This visibility underscores the new priority settings in policy, health care delivery organisation, and mental health research. There is widespread agreement that cost-effective public mental health interventions exist that can produce a variety of outcomes and economic benefits, even in the short term. Given the enormous impact of mental health problems and mental well-being, there should be a call for professionals and policymakers to consider public mental health as a new way of practice. It is, however, disappointing that despite the 20 availability of cost-effective public mental health interventions, only a minority of professionals follow these policies. This maybe because the emphasis in years prior to graduation and practice was not that vigorously promoted as it should have been. For its future development, Public Mental Health necessitates a