of the total population. This was further categorized as visual impairment (8.1%), hearing impairment (7.4%), physical impairment (19%), ‘mental handicap’ (6.4%), ‘mental impairment’ (7.6%), multiple disabilities (8.2%), and ‘others’ (43.3%). Fifty-five per cent of disabled people in Pakistan were found in Punjab, followed by 28.4% in Sindh; there were more males than females in both rural and urban areas. These data are limited in their use. The few cross-sectional studies (mostly urban) conducted in Pakistan give an estimated prevalence of disability varying from 2.8 to 6.2% (41-45). Pakistan does not have official data on self-harm and/or suicide. Data on suicide is not included in the national annual mortality statistics. Thus national rates on suicide are neither known nor are reported (including to the WHO). In recent years a large number of patients in Pakistan have been admitted to medical wards with self-harm (also known as deliberate self-harm)(46). Globally suicide is now considered a major public health problem, especially in low income countries. 25 A systematic review identified the risk factors and causes of deliberate self-harm and suicide in Pakistan a Muslim, South Asian country. Risk factors for deliberate self-harm included being young (less than 35 years), being female, being housewives, being married and having a low socioeconomic status; while reported risk factors for suicide included being young at age (less than 35 years), being a male, being married and of low socio-economic status. The common method of choice for deliberate self-harm were medication overdose, while firearm, hanging and organophosphorus poisoning were more frequent means for suicide. The most common reported cause for both outcomes was interpersonal conflicts. There is accumulating evidence that deliberate self-harm and suicide have increased over the recent years in Pakistan. There is a need for greater attention and in-depth studies to elaborate on causative mechanisms for these serious public health issues and formulate preventive interventions (47-49). Dementia prevalence is not known for Pakistan. However with increasing life expectancy, the incidence of dementia is seen to be increasing globally; same trend would hold for Pakistan. Currently Pakistan is the 6th most populous country of the world (50). Our aging population and its geriatric burden will compound into a public health issue with cases of dementia on the rise. Our geriatric burden of 65+ years is around 8 million and is projected to become 27 million by the year 2050. Similarly the old age dependence ratio1 will increase