provinces and selected districts and their facilities.  Current policies that are relevant to MNS disorders and the status of their implementation, any current spending on mental health disorders.  Human, and material resource requirements taking into account existing health sector plans and development strategies. 4. METHODOLOGY: Pakistan is a federation of four provinces, a capital territory and a group of federally administered tribal areas. The sub-provincial tier of government has a further three-tiered system of local government that comprises of districts, tehsils and union councils with an elected body at each tier. For conducting the situation analysis of mhGap five districts were selected; one from each province, while 2 from Punjab (One from north Punjab, one from south Punjab). These districts were selected after the mutual consultation of the stakeholders; which included focal persons from ministry of NHS R&C and focal persons of NCD & mental health in each province. At each union council there are mainly 4 types of primary health care facilities i.e. BHUs, RHCs, MCHCs and dispensaries. A health systems research approach was taken for selecting facilities to help representativeness of the sample for this situation analysis. Thus, 25% of all BHUs, 75% of all RCHs, 75% of all MCHCs and 75% of all the dispensaries at each district were selected randomly from the 5 pilot districts. 9 Figure 1: Selection of pilot districts for mhGAP situation analysis To carry out this situation analysis, we used the World Health Organization’s Situation Analysis Toolkit (1). This toolkit contains guidelines on how to use and adapt questionnaires to individual contexts to help assess the current capacity and needs of a country for NMS disorders. The toolkit takes into account 4 levels starting from National to Facility level information gathering – we also followed the same principle in gathering information from our 4 levels i.e i) National, ii) Provincial, iii) District & iv) Facility. PAKISTAN PUNJAB SINDH KHYBER PAKHTUNKHWA BALOCHISTAN Total districts= 34 Total districts= 20 Total districts= 24 Total districts= 26 District Rawalpindi District Bahawalpur District Hyderabad District Peshawar District Quetta Pilot Districts 10 4.1 Customization of the tools: The tools provided by WHO were translated and adapted into Urdu Pakistan’s national language. The items were reviewed keeping in mind the relevance of content, feasibility, cultural appropriateness, understanding, simplicity and thoroughness. 4.2 Selection of Sites: Before data collection for situation analysis started, districts and facilities for mhGAP situation