supporting mental health specialists in their critical roles as policymakers, service providers, trainers, and support workers in primary and community health care. The World Psychiatric Association's 2020-23 Action Plan defines emerging global 16 mental health needs and priorities, and more specifically, the public mental health (PMH) action plan group's working plan has produced several recommendations. WPA recommends improving the implementation of these interventions in different countries and regions by boosting awareness, recognition, and inclusion of Public Mental Health as a high priority in national health policies. In this regard it is the responsibility of psychiatrists to qualify the unmet needs and the corrective action required to achieve understanding in the minds of the developers and implementers of the policy that will result. Lack of attention and vigorous advocacy in this regard will result in a failure to be included and adverse consequences for the population whose mental health that psychiatrists are supposed to care for. While publications, presentations, and training programmes are important adjuncts to dissemination of PMH-related work on their own they are insufficient to achieve results on a national scale when not a part of the policy.. The effects of COVID-19 on our collective and individual wellbeing has forced the world to combat mental health challenges like never before, with creative thinkers rising to the occasion by some pointing out the issues and others their solutions. Public mental health interventions are thus, extremely crucial during pandemics to avert the expected increased prevalence of mental disorders, the associated 18,19 consequences of impaired mental well-being. There have been immense changes in the role of psychiatrists and other mental health professionals. There was a time when the goal of the psychiatric profession was to treat 'madness' which meant some behavioural patterns and experiences that were clearly outside the range of normalcy. In the public's perception, the psychiatric profession now targets a wide range of mental disorders, or 'mental health problems'. What are the examples of public mental health interventions? Journal of Pakistan Psychiatric Society Following this approach, current evidence strongly supports an efficient, equitable, and potentially a long-term reduction in the burden of mental disorders by promoting the mental 8 well-being of communities. 9 This simple question can be answered in several ways. To begin with, public mental health practice takes a populationbased route to improving Public Mental Health intervention, by evaluating scope, consequences, and synchronisation that may result in a