Country (HIC) settings exists (23). World Health Organization (WHO) estimates about 450 million people in the world suffer with neuropsychiatric disorders; while the treatment gap globally for many of the mental disorders is substantially high (23). It is estimated that in the LMIC the treatment gap amounts to more than 90% in LMIC. WHO lists certain mental disorders as the priority conditions, which are namely, i) depression, ii) psychosis, iii) bipolar disorder, iv) epilepsy, v) developmental disorders, vi) behavioral disorders, vii) dementia, viii) alcohol use, ix) drug use, and x) suicide/self-harm. Following section provides prevalence for disorders on which data is available either from published reports or journal articles in Pakistan. 22 Table 6: Treatment Gap for some mental disorders Mental Disorders Treatment Gap Major depression 56.3% Bipolar disorder 50.2% Panic disorder 55.9% Generalized Anxiety Disorder 57.5% Obsessive Compulsive Disorder 59.5% Schizophrenia and other non-affective psychoses 32.2% Alcohol abuse and dependence 78.1% A systematic review on the prevalence of anxiety and depression in Pakistan conducted in 2004 reports overall prevalence of these disorders to be 34%. The prevalence among women aged 15 to 49 being 28.8% and up to 33% among men aged 18-45 years (24). As usual the risk factors included age, low level of education, financial problems, and relationship problems. Women are especially vulnerable to developing anxiety and/or depression (also known as Common Mental Disorders) during pregnancy and in the first year postpartum (known as perinatal depression). A recent systematic review on prevalence of perinatal depression lists Pakistan as one of the countries with the highest rates in the South Asian region, that is 31% of perinatal depression (25). While studies from rural settings of Pakistan report up to a 26% of clinical depression of mild to moderate severity, based on diagnostic criterion; furthermore perinatal depression tends to be recurrent and chronic (26-28). While postpartum anxiety and depression, in urban settings, has been reported to be 28.8%. Up to a 25.8% of antenatal depression persisted in 38.3% women during the post-natal period as well (29). All of these studies clearly show more than a quarter of women suffer with perinatal depression in Pakistan. Overall prevalence of epilepsy in Pakistan is estimated to be 9.99 per 1000 population. Highest prevalence seen in younger than 30 years of age. A slight decrease in prevalence has been noted among 40 and 59 years of age. Rural population seems to have a