patients spend 17 days per discharge. 1-20% patients in community-based psychiatric inpatient units received one or more psychosocial interventions in the last year. 34% of community-based psychiatric inpatient units had at least one psychotropic medicine of each therapeutic class (anti-psychotic, antidepressant, mood stabilizer, anxiolytic, and antiepileptic medicines) available in the facility. Community residential facilities are not available in the country. There are five mental hospitals available in the country for a total of 1.9 beds per 100,000 population. 100% of these facilities are organizationally integrated with mental health outpatient facilities. The number of beds has raised 4% in the last five years. The patients admitted to mental hospitals belong primarily to the following two diagnostic groups: (1) mood [affective] disorders (31%), and (2) neurotic, stress related and somatoform disorders (24%). The average number of days spent mental hospitals is 49.9. Eighty-four percent of patients spend less than one year in mental hospital; 8% of patients spend 1-4 years; 3% of patients spend 5-10 years; and 4% of patients spend more than 10 years in mental hospitals. 1-20% patients in mental hospitals received one or more psychosocial interventions in the last year. 100% of mental hospitals had at least one psychotropic medicine of each therapeutic class (anti-psychotic, antidepressant, mood stabilizer, anxiolytic, and antiepileptic medicines) available in the facility. 11 In addition to beds in mental health facilities, there are also 0.02 beds for persons with mental disorders in forensic inpatient units and 1620 in other residential facilities such as homes for persons with mental retardation, detoxification inpatient facilities, homes for the destitute, etc. In forensic inpatient units 76% of patients spend less than one year; 24% of patients spend 1-4 years; 0% of patients spend 5-10 years; and 0% of patients spend more than 10 years. 1% of all admissions to community-based inpatient psychiatric units and 30% of all admissions to mental hospitals are involuntary. Over 20% of patients were restrained or secluded at least once within the last year in community-based psychiatric inpatient units, in comparison to 6-10% of patients in mental hospitals. The density of psychiatric beds in or around the largest city is 2.15 times greater than the density of beds in the entire country. Such a distribution of beds facilitates access for rural users. Inequity of access to mental health services for other minority users (e.g., linguistic, ethnic, religious minorities) is a moderate issue in the country.