(WHO), Geneva, in collaboration with colleagues inside and outside of WHO. Please refer to WHO-AIMS (WHO, 2005) for full information on the development of WHOAIMS at the following website. http://www.who.int/mental_health/evidence/WHOAIMS/en/index.html The project received financial assistance and/or seconded personnel from: The National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) (under the National Institutes of Health) and the Center for Mental Health Services (under the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration [SAMHSA]) of the United States; The Health Authority of Regione Lombardia, Italy; The Ministry of Public Health of Belgium and The Institute of Neurosciences Mental Health and Addiction, Canadian Institutes of Health Research. The WHO-AIMS team at WHO Headquarters includes: Benedetto Saraceno, Shekhar Saxena, Tom Barrett, Antonio Lora, Mark van Ommeren, Jodi Morris and Grazia Motturi. Additional assistance has been provided by Mona Sharma. The WHO-AIMS project is coordinated by Shekhar Saxena. 5 Executive Summary The World Health Organization Assessment Instrument for Mental Health Systems (WHO-AIMS) was used to collect information on the mental health system in Pakistan. The goal of collecting this information is to improve the mental health system and to provide a baseline for monitoring the change. This will enable Pakistan to develop information-based mental health plans with clear base-line information and targets. It will also be useful to monitor progress in implementing reform policies, providing community services, and involving users, families and other stakeholders in mental health promotion, prevention, care and rehabilitation. Pakistan's mental health policy was last revised in 2003.the mental health plan was also last revised in 2003. The disaster/emergency preparedness plan for mental health was last revised in 2006. The mental health legislation was enacted in 2001 and it focused on the access to mental health care including access to the least restrictive care; rights of mental health service consumers; family members, and other care givers; competency, capacity, and guardianship issues for people with mental illness; voluntary and involuntary treatment; accreditation of professionals and facilities; law enforcement and other judicial system issues for people with mental illness; mechanisms to oversee involuntary admission and treatment practices; and mechanisms to implement the provisions of mental health legislation. A national mental health authority exists which provides advice to the government on mental health policies and legislation. The mental health authority also is involved in service planning, service management and co-ordination and in monitoring and quality assessment of mental health services. Mental health services are not organized in terms