primary health care level; and in most places, secondary level of health care as well. In the current times of management of mental illnesses, deinstitutionalization has shifted the focus of care from hospitals to community based care units to manage mentally ill clients. However, its accessibility particularly in a developing country like Pakistan is not yet implemented. Although, the primary health care is established in Pakistan, mental health services are only established and available at tertiary care hospitals in urban areas only. Despite vast public sector network, it is observed that many of the health facilities remain non-functional due to non-availability of human resource. Due to rapidly growing population, the existing number of public and private health institutions, facilities and services are not sufficient to cope with the demand of health care provision (10). On average a primary health care centre covers the population of 18,000-20,000 individuals. The average number of people seeking treatment from these facilities is 800-1200 per month. To cover the needs of this population in a primary health care centre the workforce (including both health care providers and support staff) comprises of 9-15 personnel. The number of health workforce (health care providers) is limited to 5-7 persons per facility on average comprising typically of 1 medical officer, 1-2 Lady health visitors, and lady health workers varying from 2-5 in numbers. Aside from these, the staff includes technician, dispenser, vaccinator and mid-wife. The health care staff in all facilities is equipped to deal with maternal and child health issue and general health problems (60). Table below summarises the current situation of human resource in the 5 pilot districts at the primary health care level. This information was collected from the provincial offices and at the facility level during survey interviews. As it can be seen that Rawalpindi (Northern Punjab), faces huge challenges in terms of human resource where more than one third (32%) of the total positions in the primary health care facilities are vacant. In Hyderabad (Sindh) and Bahawalpur (Southern Punjab) 22% and 7% of the sanctioned positions are vacant. (NOTE: Data on HR from the district 37 was not available for Peshawar however a similar picture to that of Rawalpindi emerged when individual facilities were inquired about the health staff vacancies) Table 12: Human Resource at Primary Health Care in Pilot Districts Districts Facility Type Human Resource Sanctioned Vacant Quetta BHU 36 0 RHC 0