in awareness among patients, users, and healthcare workers about treatment programs, and professionals are also accepting them as important and key stakeholders. It is encouraging to see that healthcare professionals are exploring new ways to improve the quality of mental health care by improving cost-effectiveness and encouraging innovation in care settings. Implementing these innovations and improvements has also emerged and is being facilitated as a key focus of modern healthcare research by the 4 digitalisation of communication. Despite advances in psychopharmacology and service delivery, disease processes will still relapse and require further innovations in treatment modalities. In the current climate of financial constraints, there is a need for understanding that improving the quality of care and outcomes for people necessitates a focus on relapse prevention, improving productivity, and reducing overall resource utilisation. New directions are being set by a focus on the prevention of mental January March 2023 J Pak Psychiatr Soc Volume 20 Issue 01 PAGE 05 are a growing number of evidence-based routes to upholding mental health and preventing mental issues. Prevention and early intervention prior to or at the onset of mental disorders is also the reason behind improved outcomes. The basic principle is mental disorder prevention at different levels of care. Primary prevention interventions concentrate on risk factors in order to avoid mental disorders from developing. At the secondary level, early interventions for mental issues and their consequences are provided as soon as they appear. Intervention at the tertiary level is for those with recognised mental disorders to prevent recurrence and the associated consequences. Thus the primary level is the promotion of mental health protective factors. It is followed by the secondary level, which is associated with early management of those whose mental health has recently deteriorated. Those with a long history of poor mental health are dealt with at the tertiary level.. Finally, there is resilience promotion for those who have experienced recent adversity, as well as those who have endured past or longstanding 7,9,10 challenges. Presently, there is a worldwide and pressing need to provide high-quality mental health care, together with a commitment to supporting mental health specialists in their critical roles as policymakers, service providers, trainers, and support workers in primary and community health care. The World Psychiatric Association's 2020-23 Action Plan defines emerging global 16 mental health needs and priorities, and more specifically, the public mental health (PMH) action plan group's working