mhGAP at PHC level. The challenge will be the implementation of these policies at the provincial, district and facility levels. The key barriers to the implementation, as seen in this situational analysis, will be; i) At the Facility Level: It was clear from the situation analysis that PHC facilities did not have all of their sanctioned posts filled. Thus shortage of human resource will create treatment gaps at the facility level. More than 30% facilities in Rawalpindi and about a quarter facilities in Quetta did not have all sanctioned posts filled. Another challenge will be that none of the human resource at the PHC level ever had any training in mental health. They will need continuous support in terms of supervision by their district level trainers in order to acquire the necessary skills and competency to detect and treat mental disorders. Availability of psychotropic medicines at the facility level was another gap. Currently none of the facilities approached in this situation analysis had psychotropic medicines and they were not part of the DHIS stock out reporting mechanism. The provinces will have to ensure that a) psychotropic drugs are made available and b) are part of the DHIS drug inventory list of stocks. The mhGAP training will help in the detection and diagnoses of mental disorders at the PHC level, however recoding these as part of the DHIS reporting will have to be reviewed carefully and should be part of the roll-out. This will ensure that post-rollout of mhGAP correct reliable diagnoses are reported as part of the DHIS data. Referral pathway was also found to have gaps. The facilities referring to the higher tier do not have a proper mechanism to follow up referred patients. One of the reasons of this is the unavailability of mental health services at the PHC and secondary level and the absence of any standard operating procedures. Last but not the least, communities being served by these PHC facilities will have to be made aware of availability of mental health services. Awareness rasing campaigns help reduce the stigma as well. Unless “demand side” is also addressed, only reinforcing the “supply side” (i.e provision of mhGAP trainings and medicines at the PHC) will not help increase the utilization of services. 47 ii) At the District Level: The key challenge at the district level will be the continuous supervision of the PHC staff trained in the mhGAP