fully understand the reasons of failure and/or achievements of previous plans and policies to help build on that to develop new policies. 31 Lack of human resource and political will to improve mental health appears to be another variable acting as a barrier to effective designing and implementation of mental health policy. Also lacking is an effort to map out all the stakeholders and take them on board for consensus building and decision making and its implementation (52). Thus it becomes impossible to draw a holistic picture of mental health issues and so the vision, values, principles and objectives of the mental health policy start lacking grounds for implementation. Lack of evidence about the needs of the population, allocation of a meagre mental health budget and a non-existing national health systems are among the factors that lead to gaps in developing and implementing the mental health policy. 8.3 Government of Pakistan: The constitution of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, 1973 provides for a federal parliamentary system with the President as head of state and Commander in Chief of the Pakistani Armed Forces and an elected Prime Minister as the head of government. Government in Parliamentary Democracy is headed by the Prime Minister, who is assisted by his Cabinet Ministers heading various Ministries, Divisions and by his Advisors (56). 32 Figure 3: Pakistan’s Federal Government Structure Federal Government Executive Legislative Judiciary  Supreme Court  High Courts  Federal Shariat Court  Subordinate Judiciary President (Head of State) Prime Minister Federal Cabinet Minister/Divisions  Attached Departments  Autonomous Bodies  SemiAutonomous Bodies PM Secretariat Cabinet Division Establishment Division Parliament Senate National Assembly  100 Members  22 from each province, 8 from FATA and 4 from Federal Capital  17 Seats reserved for women  342 members  272 General seats, 60 for women and 10 for Non-Muslims 33 8.4 Structural and Administrative Barriers to Mental Health: Pakistan went through devolution of its services related public sectors including health sector with the 18th amendment in its constitution effective from June 28, 2011. The Federal Ministry of Health (MoH) was dissolved and the overall responsibility for health services policy direction and planning was devolved to the provinces. The introduction of devolution led to changes in roles of different stakeholders from top to bottom, thus re-distributing the power at various levels. As a result of which provinces and provincial authorities gained more control