country. Provincial-level data provide a more specific understanding of the provinces that contain selected sites for the situation analysis. The items on this level assess similar aspects as those at the national-level, but are specific to the selected province. Furthermore, additional items assess treatment guidelines for MNS disorders, availability of diagnostic equipment, psycho-social aspects of MNS disorders, and community resources from the presence of any informal health care for MNS disorders. Methods of Data Collection: This level of analysis was also based on desk review. Apart from the desk review also had key informant interviews with all the provincial focal persons appointed for mental health. 3. District-level: District is defined as a division within the administrative division for the country below the provincial level. The goal is to provide details that cover the district and factors that impact general health and MNS disorders. In addition to demographical 12 information about the specific district, items on this level ask specifically about MNS disorders information systems, MNS disorders medication and treatment, psychosocial aspects of MNS disorders, educational resources, human resources, health service structure, pathway of care, and community resources. Methods of Data Collection: This was based on desk review which included examining DHIS reports. Apart from the desk review key informant interviews with all the relevant district level personnel were conducted. 4. Facility-level: The facility-level items assess information about MNS disorders care at the level of health facility. Items at this level include questions on health services, MNS disorders referrals, human resources, MNS disorders care and training, information systems, and community linkages with the specific facility. Methods of Data Collection: Since this was the most crucial level of data collection it involved multiple modes of data collection. Detailed desk review of district level information was carried out, which included examining and analyzing District Health Information Systems (DHIS) reports. Apart from the desk review key informant interviews with all the relevant district level personnel were conducted as well to gather the information. To contact facilities in order to obtain primary health care level information, selected facilities were visited and Facility In-charges were interviewed to fill out the facility level tool/form. 13 Figure 2: Methods and tools for data collection TOOLS AND METHODS OF DATA COLLECTION WHO TOOLKIT TEMPLATES/ FORMS DESK REVIEWS DHIS PORTAL FOCAL PERSONS OF NCD AND MENTAL HEALTH IN EACH PROVINCE CONTACTING THE FACILITIES 14 5. OVERVIEW OF COUNTRY PROFILE: 5.1