NA Diagnoses 100% 100% 100% 25 GRAPH 6.1 PERCENTAGES OF MENTAL HEALTH FACILITIES TRANSMITTING DATA TO HEALTH DEPARTMENT 100% 100% 100% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 120% OUTPATIENT FAC. INPATIENT UNITS MENTAL HOSPITALS 26 Strengths and Weaknesses of the Mental Health System in Pakistan Pakistan's mental health policy was last revised in 2003.The mental health plan was last revised in 2003. A disaster/emergency preparedness plan for mental health was last revised in 2006. The mental health legislation was enacted in 2001. A national mental health authority also exists which provides advice to the government on mental health policies and legislation. The mental health authority is involved in service planning, service management and co-ordination and in monitoring and quality assessment of mental health services. There are 8 users/consumers that are members of consumer associations and 6 family members that are members of family associations. Family associations have been involved in the formulation or implementation of mental health policies, plans, or legislation in the past two years. In addition to consumer and family associations, there are 18 other NGOs in the country involved in individual assistance activities such as counselling, housing, or support groups. Mental health providers and primary care staff work in interaction and efforts are being carried on to enhance interaction among these facilities in the country.Twenty seven percent of the training for medical doctors is devoted to mental health, in comparison to 3% nurses and 11% nondoctor/non-nurse primary health care workers. In terms of refresher training, 16% of primary health care doctors have received at least two days of refresher training in mental health, while 5% of nurses and 13% of non-doctor/non-nurse primary health care workers have received such training. Mental health policy, plan and legislation do exist in the country but are not implemented. The health system is not well established and lacks sufficient resources. Community work is limited to a few tertiary care hospitals and in big cities. Only 1% of 1.926 beds per 100,000 population, in the community based psychiatric inpatient units are available for children and adolescents. Community based residential facilities and day treatment facilities are not available in the country. Training at the graduation level is meager that only three psychiatrists graduated in the last year in academic and educational institutions. The distribution of human resources between urban and rural areas is disproportionate. The density of psychiatrists in or around the largest city