burden of mental disorders by promoting the mental 8 well-being of communities. 9 This simple question can be answered in several ways. To begin with, public mental health practice takes a populationbased route to improving Public Mental Health intervention, by evaluating scope, consequences, and synchronisation that may result in a long-term decrease in the burden of mental disorders. Next, rather than an individual approach, public mental health also focuses on a population or a community; therefore, public mental health promotes mental well-being, resilience, and ultimately reinforces an efficient, equitable, and long-term decrease in the burden of mental health issues and promotion of the population's mental wellbeing. There are several reasons why public mental health is 10 important. Public mental health interventions follow a population-based path to reduce mental disorders and promoting mental well-being. Secondly, in recent years, efficacious public mental health interventions are available to manage mental disorders, prevent their consequences, and inhibit the emergence of mental disorders. Finally, redefining mental health as "public mental health" may have several advantages, such as the fact that public mental health needs assessment can provide an excellent opportunity to improve both, understanding and acceptance globally of mental wellbeing. 11 The prevalence of mental disorders has been immense, and a greater number of life's mental disorders occur before adulthood, with 50% or more occurring by the age of 14 12 years. Mental issues also have a wide spectrum of effects on health and socio-economic consequences that affect various strata in communities. As a result, the effects of mental illness can be described at various stages of life, including higher rates of health risk behaviour such as substance use, self-harm, physical inactivity, and a poor diet. Finally, the broader consequences of mental illness include unemployment, poverty, debt, diminished financial capability, violence perpetration and victimization, homelessness, stigma, discrimination, and a decreased quality of life. Despite repeated proposals and a plausible rationale for moving past drug use as the principal treatment standard in psychiatry, the discipline has yet to implement 'other' measures that should be regularly incorporated into 13 treatment strategies. The efficacy of pharmacological treatment in psychiatry has been called into question, as some health professionals argue about the effectiveness of common psychotropic drugs. Some reports have prompted a broad critique of psychotropic medication in the scientific fraternity and media. It is true that any collation of treatments for diverse illnesses can only be qualitative, and