reporting a higher prevalence of behavioral problems among children. There is a dearth of studies from Pakistan. Only few studies have been carried out to assess prevalence of behavioral problems in children. Prevalence of behavioral problems is reported to be around 910% and up to 34.4% parents and 35.8% teachers reporting children to be exhibiting some form of behavioral problems. Clear gender differences exist; where boys are more likely to externalize problems and girls to internalize problems. It seems parents in Pakistan are becoming increasingly aware of pediatric physical health of their children but are still neglecting their children's mental; which can be attributed to stigma and lack of awareness. This is compounded by the scarcity of mental health facilities, specifically for child and adolescent mental health, makes it harder to get timely and appropriate services for children with behavioral problems (34-36) 24 Psychosis & bipolar disorders fall under the psychoses spectrum of mental disorders. These disorders generally have a lower prevalence. There are very few studies, which are mainly based in hospital settings, are available to provide exact information for Pakistan. Based on studies from the hospital show that there seems that psychoses is increasing in numbers. Of note these studies were conducted on metropolitan city hospitals or done as screening for psychoses among medical students. A high percentage (14.3%) of students screened showed a predisposition to Bipolar disorder (37, 38). What is evident from these studies, apart from prevalence or predisposition towards psychoses, is the delay in seeking care and only sought when severity of illness increases (39). Children born in lowand mid-income countries are at a high risk of developing disabilities, yet estimates of Pakistan population-based prevalence are sparse. What little information that is available shows Pakistan to have one of the highest rates of childhood intellectual disabilities or developmental disorders in the world. The prevalence estimates vary from 19.1/1000 for serious intellectual disability to 65/1000 for mild intellectual disability (40-42). Pakistan is one of the few countries to have incorporated disability data within its population census. The 1998 National Census of Pakistan reported disability in 2.5% of the total population. This was further categorized as visual impairment (8.1%), hearing impairment (7.4%), physical impairment (19%), ‘mental handicap’ (6.4%), ‘mental impairment’ (7.6%), multiple disabilities (8.2%), and ‘others’ (43.3%). Fifty-five per cent of disabled people in Pakistan were found in Punjab, followed by 28.4% in Sindh; there were more