experts in mental health, demographers, and statisticians. The approval of NPMS was given by the National Bioethics Committee of Pakistan (letter No. 4-87/NBC-268/171/370, dated November 11, 2017) as well as the institutional review board of the Dow University of Health Sciences. To maintain uniformity in the datagathering process, the Executive Committee developed the Master Protocol and Operational instructions for data collection and fieldwork. A pilot study was carried out in a suburb of Karachi to standardize the process of methodology and identify any difficulty in fieldwork. The main issue identified during the pilot study was the non-acceptance of male interviewers by some communities. As a result, we decided to send one male and one female interviewer to each household to conduct the interviews. Informed consent was obtained from the head of the household and each participant. The sample was randomly identified by Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (PBS), from all over the country, to represent various geographical regions and to ensure cultural diversity. PBS is Pakistan's prime state agency, responsible for collecting, compiling and disseminating reliable statistical information timely to policy makers, planners and researchers25. A three-stage, stratified, random cluster sampling procedure was used for the survey. In the first stage, PBS randomly selected enumeration blocks based on probability proportionate to size. According to the Census of Pakistan 201725, the urban population was divided into enumeration blocks each having 200 to 300 households, while in the rural areas each village is an independent enumeration block. This selection of enumeration blocks helped in generating data at the provincial and national levels. The sample frame for the ensuing systematic random sampling of households was formed by serially listing and numbering every household inside the selected block. Using the Kish method26,27, primary respondents above 18year from the households were selected for interview, who comprehend the basic rational of research and give informed consent. Where no participant fulfilling the inclusion criteria was available in the selected house then the next house in the serial list was approached. The sociodemographic data of all individuals living together for at least six months and sharing the same kitchen were collected. Guests visiting temporarily were excluded. Using standard statistical techniques for estimating sample size in population-based surveys, the PBS calculated the sample size of 11180 adults (>18 years of age), spread across all four provinces {based on prevalence 34%, design effect 4 (d=margin of error 4%), level of confidence