they stressed the need for continued collaboration and are gradually working toward a more organized and unified MHPSS response. 16. Handicap International Handicap International reported three active MHPSS projects in eight districts of KP. Their work includes capacity-building for both government and non-government officials through GIZ, facilitybased mental health services since 2019, and integration of MHPSS into PHC via BHUs. They also recently launched a project targeting out-of-school children with a focus on providing recreational mental health services and safe spaces. 17. WHO, Pakistan No comments provided. 5 www.mhpss.pk PPMI Complex mhspcu@gmail.com H8/1 Islamabad Discussion and way forward  MHPSS model is an evidence-driven, indigenous and contextualized model, which is developed following international guidelines. It is designed not only for MHPSS services but also to support the well-being of service providers. The MHPSS model can be implemented using the existing resources of the partner organizations deployed in different areas.  The digital component of the MHPSS model is expected to become operational within one month, positioning the program to begin rollout by June. Implementation plans have already been developed for ICT and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. These will serve as starting points for the phased rollout of the MHPSS model.  The MHSPCU at MoPD&SI aims to play a pivotal role in bringing all stakeholders together through structured individual and collective consultations. This integrated approach will help consolidate existing efforts, reduce redundancy, and identify policy gaps that need to be addressed in alignment with national priorities. Many existing collaborations operate in isolation or under limited scopes, raising concerns about long-term sustainability. This coordination is essential to address fragmentation, avoid duplication, and ensure effective advocacy, resource mobilization, and collective impact.  MoPD&SI will establish short-term targets for the next 2–3 months, focusing on system readiness and practical implementation steps.  Due to limited funding and resources in Pakistan, it is not feasible to fully implement the international guidelines or intervention, which are piloted by UN agencies and iNGOs. Therefore, a possible way forward is to develop consensus among all stakeholders on prioritizing areas and explore the possibility of aligning relevant components of the global standard interventions into the MHPSS service model to strengthen/sustain services.  MoPD&SI aims to create a unified, integrated system for mental health service delivery, rather than fostering parallel structures. While the primary focus remains on host communities, vulnerable populations, including refugees, will also be covered. The overarching goal is