to raise public awareness on drugs and their harmful effects on individuals, families and society at large with a special focus on youth in the educational institutions, teachers, parents and religious leaders. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), in collaboration with the Ministry of Interior and Narcotics Control and supported by the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL) of the US State Department is implementing a drug prevention campaign in nine cities located in the Province of Sindh. The Anti-Narcotics Force deals with interdiction of narcotics and carries out demand reduction activities as well as promote international collaboration. It works for preparation and implementation of projects/programs in relation to drug prevention/demand reduction as well as do seminars in universities to orient and raise awareness about drug use (17). More awareness raising is needed for the general public on detection, diagnosis and treatment of MNS disorders to help reduce stigma and taboos attached to it. For example consulting for sexual problems is considered immoral and is a taboo. The existing hospital-based psychiatric services are under-utilized because of social stigma attached with the psychiatric patients and popular misconception about mental illnesses. Many individuals with mental disorders report not using health services for their mental disorder(18). The campaigns for the promotion of mental health awareness lack impact mainly due to limited coverage, magnitude and frequency. There are many organizations in public and private sector (especially university psychology and behavioral sciences schools/departments) that work to educate masses on MNS disorders however most of them independently target small audiences at small scale. Thus institutions should collaborate and join hands to use their resources and efforts to launch effective campaigns with greater magnitude covering larger populations. Awareness programs regarding MNS disorder that are more relatable to public and their needs are required in the country. Most projects that raise awareness regarding MNS are operating at national and provincial levels (19). There is, however, a gap regarding awareness and education programs at more basic levels (eg union council level). Also most awareness raising programs focus on treatment aspects of MNS disorders. There is need for programs that target other aspects including prevention, recognition of signs/symptoms, reducing stigma, helping MNS patients and their families to cope and increasing involvement at the community level. 21 7. PREVALENCE OF MNS DISORDERS: Pakistan has never carried out a national mental health survey which covers prevalence