Scale) questionnaire32. Each item of this scale identifies the level of difficulty, starting with ‘no difficulty’ and including ‘mild’, ‘moderate’, ‘severe’ or ‘extreme’ difficulties. SDS measures functional impairment in three areas including work/school, social life, and home/family responsibilities58. It is a simple, brief tool feasible to apply and having good validity & reliability. The higher scores represent severe functional impairments59. The results of the SDS demonstrate that all the psychiatric disorders identified in the community sample are associated with moderate to severe levels of functional impairment, not only in work performance, but also in their social life/leisure activities, and their family life and home responsibilities performance. This may be different from hospital population as most of the people are functioning in the community. Socio-demographic correlates There is significant increase in risk of psychiatric morbidity with increasing age especially in people above the age of 40 years. This finding may benefit the service planning where the people with icreasing age may be targeted. It is hard to make any aetiological inference but we can speculate that the people with increasing age has experience the greater social change and they have to provide physical, psychological and financial support to their children and their elders at the same time. The traditional support in the family and community has declined. Additionally, people above the age of 40 years is higher risk of non-communicable diseases including diabetes, hypertension and heart disease. These chronic health conditions have an association with psychiatric disorders. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted July 8, 2024. ; https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.07.08.24310056 doi: medRxiv preprint 9 Although the overall prevalence of psychiatric disorders is slightly high among female (38.5%) as compare to male (37.3%) but adjusted odd ration shows low impact of sex (<1) on psychiatric disorder (Table-4). This finding is similar to other surveys conducted in the general population showing not much difference between males and females in the overall prevalence of mental disorders59. But there is difference between men and women in relation to pattern of psychiatric disorders and their symptoms i.e. women suffer from higher rates of depression and anxiety (referred to as internalizing disorders), and men have higher rates of substance abuse and antisocial disorders (referred to as