There is need for programs that target other aspects including prevention, recognition of signs/symptoms, reducing stigma, helping MNS patients and their families to cope and increasing involvement at the community level. 21 7. PREVALENCE OF MNS DISORDERS: Pakistan has never carried out a national mental health survey which covers prevalence and risk factors of mental health disorders within its population. Other countries in the WHO EMRO region not only have done mental health surveys but some have even repeated it after a decade’s time (20-22). Mental health is neither covered in the Pakistan Demographic Health Survey (PDHS) nor in any other nationally representative surveys. This in turn reflects, by proxy, the level of recognition and commitment a country has in addressing its mental health needs. However as a signatory, Pakistan did take part in the recent WHO EMRO Region mental health atlas related survey 2014. In order to understand the burden and situation of mental disorders in Pakistan other sources of information has to be taken in consideration eg systematic reviews on mental disorders conducted in which Pakistan is included or systematic reviews based on within the country studies. A number of such systematic reviews have been conducted and sheds light on the prevalence of some mental disorders in Pakistan. The focus of these systematic reviews has either been on the common mental disorders within South Asian countries. Thus ascertaining prevalence and burden of specific mental health issues in Pakistan, as one of the countries. Apart from these systematic reviews, small individual studies from different parts of Pakistan have also been published which also helps understanding the overall scenario of mental health status within specific sets of population in Pakistan. Globally it is estimated that 1 in 4 families have a member with a mental disorder. Mental, neurological and substance use disorders combined account for a considerable proportion of the disease burden and as much as a fifth of years of life lived with disability. The vast majority of people with a mental disorder do not receive any treatment – thus the huge treatment gap even in the High Income Country (HIC) settings exists (23). World Health Organization (WHO) estimates about 450 million people in the world suffer with neuropsychiatric disorders; while the treatment gap globally for many of the mental disorders is substantially high (23). It is estimated that in the LMIC the treatment gap amounts to more than