current situation analysis were also part of the DHIS reporting system. As mentioned above, pertaining to mental health, NCDs are categorized in two broad categories namely “Neuropsychiatric Diseases” (which include depression, drug dependence, and epilepsy) and “Mental Behavioral Disorder Drug Abuse” (which includes “drug abuse (psychoactive substance use)” and “mental disorders”). The DHIS, however, does not provide the definition and/or diagnostic criteria for these disorders nor does it provide the rationale of classification of these disorders in the above mentioned categories. The lack of training and/or qualifications of the PHC level In-charges (MOs or LHVs) does not help in the diagnoses of these disorders, thus it is not clear if for example all the depression cases reported from these facilities are actually depression or not (8). This carries implications for the mhGAP roll-out since the currently reported numbers from these facilities may change after they are trained and supervised. Furthermore the DHIS categories on which these facilities report should also be reviewed so that mental disorders can be recoded correctly. 44 11. LIMITATIONS: The fact that mental health is not a priority in terms of public health agenda served as the major limitation in obtaining information for this situation analysis, since it was not readily available in a systematic manner. This was compounded by the fact that Pakistan has not conducted a national mental survey. Therefore majority of the prevalence rates on all the WHO priority conditions were derived from small usually urban based independent studies. Another limitation of gathering reliable data was posed at the health management information systems. The DHIS is functional and does include some (not all mental disorder related indicators) mental health indicators, however the understanding of PHC level staff reporting on those indicators was not up to the mark. Thus the figures reported need to be viewed with caution. 45 12. CONCLUSIONS: Findings from the situation analysis based on the National, Provincial, five selected Districts and randomly selected 203 Facilities (within these five Districts), following are the conclusions that can be drawn in in terms of the mental health situation of Pakistan. It is clear that the mental health situation of Pakistan in terms of the burden of mental disorders is far from optimal. Pakistan has one of the highest rates of common mental disorders (including maternal depression) in the region. Similarly one of the highest rates of developmental delays are also reported from Pakistan.