versions). All of the BHU based staff reported that psychotropic medicines were not part of list of drugs that were regularly supplied to them. The same was true at the DHIS level regarding the information of drugs stock out and none of the drugs listed in the DHIS had psychotropic medicines in it. This has ramifications for the mhGAP roll out in the 5 pilot districts and their facilities. This is another reason that most patients, instead of primary care services, access services at secondary and tertiary care centers directly (62). 10.4 Referral System As mentioned above the health care delivery system has three levels and referrals are supposed to be made from lower to higher level facilities. As part of the facility based inquiry during the situation analysis, detailed information was gather from facility in-charges about referrals were made. Facility in-charges were not aware of any written and/or standardized protocols for referrals. One of the aspects highlighted was that if referrals were made to a higher facility, due to the lack of services at the facility being referred to, patients generally prefer not going or going to the tertiary care directly or prefer seeking care from the private sector. Feedback and follow up mechanism of referrals also has gaps the staff is not follow up with the referred facility nor the patient. Mapping and definition of referral catchment area of health facilities are currently unavailable. 42 10.5 Health Management Information System (HMIS) The Health Management Information System (HMIS) is crucial for evidence-based policymaking, informed decision-making during planning, implementation and evaluation of health programs; and for appropriate use of resources at all levels of the health system. Before the launch of standard National Health Management Information System (NHMIS) in 2000, there had been acute paucity of reliable and timely health information in Pakistan. Health Departments had no choice but to resort to estimates or carry out expensive community based surveys to determine the disease incidence. After the development and deployment of NHMIS, District Health System is reshaping itself based upon the regular information now available for a large number of priority health problems and more frequent. This is system is now offering tremendous opportunities for promoting evidence based decision making and improvement of expanded health care structure. This effort led to putting in place a standard system of data collection and transmission from roughly 13,000 public health services (both urban