facilities are not available in the country. Training at the graduation level is meager that only three psychiatrists graduated in the last year in academic and educational institutions. The distribution of human resources between urban and rural areas is disproportionate. The density of psychiatrists in or around the largest city is 2.29 times greater than the density of psychiatrists in the entire country. The density of nurses is 0.15 times higher in the largest city than the entire country. The density of clinical psychologists and social workers, working in government sector is quite low. None of the mental disorder is covered by social insurance schemes. Only 0.4% of health care expenditures by the government health department are devoted to mental health. Of all the expenditures spent on mental health, 11% are devoted to mental hospitals. Psychotropic drugs are mostly widely available in mental hospitals, followed by inpatient units, and then outpatient mental health facilities. The following legislative and financial provisions exist to protect and provide support for users: (1) provisions concerning a legal obligation for employers to hire a certain percentage of employees that are disabled, (2) provisions concerning protection from discrimination (dismissal, lower wages) solely on account of mental disorder, (3) provisions concerning priority in state housing and in subsidized housing schemes for people with severe mental disorders, and (4) provisions concerning 27 protection from discrimination in allocation of housing for people with severe mental disorders. All of these provisions exist but are not enforced. Efforts are there to promote equity of access to mental health services but more is required as the density of psychiatric beds in or around the largest city is 2.29 times greater than the density of beds in the entire country. Such a distribution of beds facilitates access for rural users. Inequity of access to mental health services for other minority users (e.g., linguistic, ethnic, religious minorities) is a moderate issue in the country. 28 Next Steps in Strengthening the Mental Health System The Mental health law's response to changed social and professional attitudes, in the form of the new ordinance, though much belated, is a fitting one. However, many gaps in the law still remain. Also, steps such as the establishment of the Federal Mental Health Authority can only be judged by performance over the course of the coming years. Despite the progress made in comparison with the old law, the current law