mhspcu@gmail.com H8/1 Islamabad Health Workers (LHWs), and Community Health Workers (CHWs)—across the District of Jaffarabad, Baluchistan, as part of a Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) initiative. 9. International Medical Corps (IMC) IMC shared that their PRM and UNHCR training projects have concluded, while current collaborations with UNHCR and GIZ continue in KP. IMC is delivering comprehensive case management, mhGAP-based capacity building, and community-based programs for Afghan refugees, including youth empowerment and livelihoods initiatives. They shared that they have contextualized scalable interventions such as PM+ and SH+ in Pashto, and conducted foundational helping skills trainings under the EQUIP initiative with IOM. IMC also highlighted the uncertainty of funding to continue these projects. They are collaborating with GIZ to implement the MHPSS model in Kohat and Haripur. 10. Islamic Relief Islamic Relief Pakistan (IRP) highlighted their integrated humanitarian and development work with vulnerable populations across all provinces and AJK, including the establishment of 500 community structures and engagement with an equal number of community providers. They emphasized the importance of linking MHPSS model with other services to enhance awareness and accessibility. IRP, in collaboration with UNFPA, is strengthening GBV-related sites and helplines, and sees strong potential for collaboration with other stakeholders and the Ministry. They currently have 10 clinical psychologists working across Pakistan to include MHPSS components into all upcoming projects. 11. International Organization for Migration (IOM) IOM shared that over the past 2–3 years, they have provided MHPSS-integrated primary healthcare services in Balochistan, Karachi, and KP through mobile and fixed-site facilities. Under the ongoing refugee response plan, IOM will start to provide primary healthcare services in Karachi, Peshawar, and Balochistan, with integrated MHPSS services including individual counselling sessions to the patients who are accessing healthcare services at PHC units or maternal and childcare centres. IOM is also implementing a UK-funded project for Afghans in Islamabad, who are registered to resettle in the UK, which includes screening, counseling, and vocational support services. 12. United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF) UNICEF shared that mental health was formally integrated into their health portfolio two years ago, with the establishment of a TWG under MoNHSRC in 2022, which is renotified in 2025. They have developed a Theory of Change for the WHO’s Helping Adolescents Thrive (HAT) program for adolescents, translated it into Urdu, and piloted it in Rawalpindi with the support of clinical psychologists from Shifa Tameer-e-Milat University (STMU); the program is currently