2015, United Nations member states adopted the sustainable development agenda 2030. Pakistan being a member of UN adopted this agenda which entails sustainable development goals (SGDs). The SDGs sets, for their signatory countries, development targets in different sectors including health and well-being (55). Since mental health has a human rights angle attached to it, Pakistan has a national human rights review body. It has the authority to oversee regular inspections under taken at the mental health facilities, review involuntary admission and discharge procedures; review complaints investigation processes; and the review body has the authority to impose sanctions (e.g. withdraw accreditation, impose penalties, or close facilities that persistently violate human rights). All of the mental hospitals in Pakistan have had at least one review/inspection of human rights protection of patients in 2008. However only 6 % of community-based psychiatric services and or any community residential facilities have had such a review. Budgetary allocations is another important aspect to help implement policies. About 0.4% of the total health care expenditures of Pakistan (which is approx. 2-3% of the national GDP) are allocated to mental health. These funds are grossly short for the enormity of the mental health burden pf Pakistan. Furthermore of all the expenditures in mental health, 11% are devoted to mental hospitals. The rate of our spending on mental hospitals is much lower compared to other low and middle income countries. One reason could be that Pakistan did not inherit a larger number of mental hospitals at indo-pak partition (4). 8.2 Barriers to Effective Policy: Unfortunately, despite development and existence of mental health policy, there are several factors that cause hindrance in way of its effective implementation. However, the problem is not solely implementation. The mental health policy of Pakistan was originally developed in the backdrop of lacking national level mental health data (52). Due to the non-availability of basic research like national mental health morbidity data, there was very little evidence on which to base this policy. Furthermore, absence of evaluative studies of previous plans and programmes and lack of Information Management Systems made it even more difficult to fully understand the reasons of failure and/or achievements of previous plans and policies to help build on that to develop new policies. 31 Lack of human resource and political will to improve mental health appears to be another variable acting as a barrier to effective designing and implementation of mental