WHO MENTAL HEALTH GLOBAL ACTION PROGRAMME (mhGAP) SITUATION ANALYSIS OF PRIMARY HEALTHCARE SYSTEM PAKISTAN Dec 2016 1 PREFACE Mental, neurological, and substance use disorders are common in all regions of the world, affecting every community and age group across all income countries. While these disorders increase the global burden of disease, most of the people affected do not have access to the treatment they need. The WHO Mental Health Gap Action Programme (mhGAP) aims at scaling up services for mental, neurological and substance use disorders for countries especially within lowand middle-income settings where the treatment gap is enormous. The programme asserts that with proper care, psychosocial assistance and medication, people could be treated for mental, neurological and substance disorders; and begin to lead normal productive lives– even where resources are limited. Pakistan is a signatory member of the World Health Organization and the EMRO Regional Framework. The Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations & Coordination (NHS R&C) has been working to implement the WHO-EMRO Regional Framework and is included in the NonCommunicable Diseases & Mental Health National Plan of Pakistan (NCD&MH 2014-2024), which will be rolled out at the Provincial level. This report describes findings of the situation analysis carried out to inform the planning of mhGAP implementation in Pakistan within pilot districts across all provinces. This report quantifies the burden of mental, neurological and substance disorders. This report identifies the baseline information for subsequent integration of mhGAP at the level of primary healthcare system. The results of this report aim to bring under one cover the findings from the pilot districts from all the provinces of Pakistan to help plan the implementation and scale up of mhGAP at the primary health care level in the country. 2 Ministry of National Health Services Regulations and Coordination (M/o NHS R&C) Team: Dr. Assad Hafeez Director General (Health) Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation And Coordination (M/o NHS R&C) Dr. Malik Muhammad Safi Director (Programs) Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation And Coordination (M/o NHS R&C) Dr. Samra Mazhar Deputy Director (P-II) Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation And Coordination (M/o NHS R&C) Dr Ahsan M Ahmad Consultant Health Planning System Strengthening & Information Analysis Unit – HPSIU Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation & Coordination (M/o NHS R&C) Human Development Research Foundation (HDRF) Team: Dr. Siham Sikander, Ph.D (UK), FCPS (Pak), MB.BS (Pak) Director of Research Human Development Research Foundation (HDRF)