Regional framework is included in the Non-Communicable Diseases & Mental Health National Plan of Pakistan (NCD&MH 2014-2024), which will be implemented at the provincial level. This report describes findings of a situation analysis carried out to inform the planning of mhGAP implementation in the provinces. The report covers the background, key objectives, methodology, mental health policy and strategy, human resource, delivery of care in specialized and nonspecialized health settings and awareness and understanding of public about Mental Neurological and Substance use (MNS) disorders. 2. BACKGROUND: Mental, neurological, and substance use (MNS) disorders are prevalent in all regions of the world and are major contributors to morbidity and mortality, but treatment gap between the need for and availability of services for MNS disorders is enormous. In order to reduce the treatment gap and enhance the capacity of Member States to respond to the growing challenge, the World Health Organization (WHO) launched the Mental Health Gap Action Programme (mhGAP) in 2008. mhGAP provides health planners, policy-makers and donors with a set of clear and coherent activities and programmes for scaling up care for priority conditions (which are depression, psychosis, bipolar disorder, epilepsy, developmental disorders, behavioural disorders, dementia, alcohol use, drug use, suicide/self-harm. Pakistan is a signatory of the World Health Organization’s Global Mental Health Plan. The Ministry of National Health Services has been working with WHO-EMRO to adapt this plan for the region and the framework is included in the Non-Communicable Diseases & Mental Health National Plan of Pakistan (NCD&MH) from 2014-2024, which is starting to be implemented at the provincial level. 8 3. AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: The overall aim of the situation analysis was to gather national, provincial, district and facility level information on existing policies and strategies, human resource, delivery of care at the health systems level related to Mental Neurological and Substance use (MNS) disorders. This eventually will help inform planning of the piloting and roll-out phase of mhGAP implementation in selected districts of Pakistan (namely Hyderabad, Peshawar, Quetta, Bhawalpur and Rawalpindi). To inform the situation analysis we explored the following;  Burden of MNS disorders for Pakistan, its provinces and selected districts and their facilities.  Current policies that are relevant to MNS disorders and the status of their implementation, any current spending on mental health disorders.  Human, and material resource requirements taking into account existing health sector plans and development strategies. 4. METHODOLOGY: Pakistan is a