in the constitution of Pakistan, health was made a provincial subject. On 8th April 2010, the Federal Mental Health Authority was dissolved and responsibilities were devolved to the provinces, and it became their task to pass appropriate mental health legislation through their assemblies. So far, only Sindh province has made significant progress in this regard. The Sindh Mental Health Ordinance 2013 has been endorsed by the Sindh Assembly (Government of Sindh, 2013). However, the ‘Rules and Regulations’ and necessary ‘Forms’ which will ensure implementation in daily practice, have not yet been processed. While the Punjab provincial government enacted the Punjab Mental Health Act in 2014. The act itself is the modification of the 2001 mental health ordinance; it substitutes the words ‘Federal Government’ with ‘Government’ as reported by the Law and Parliamentary Affairs Department (53). Recently, the Chief Minister of Punjab has conferred approval to constitute Punjab Mental Health Authority in pursuance of the Mental Health Act, 2014 (http://dailytimes.com.pk/punjab/09Dec-16/punjab-mental-health-authority-given-go-ahead). The authority shall advise the government on all matters pertaining to promotion of mental health, prevention against mental disorders and establishment of new national standards for care and treatment for mental health patients. The authority shall also recommend measures to improve existing mental health services, besides setting up child, psycho-geriatric, forensic, learning disability and community-based services, and prescribing procedures with respect to setting up and functioning of the mental health services and facilities. The situation in the provinces of Baluchistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa remains unclear. The Mental Health Ordinance Pakistan 2001 has lapsed, and there has been no new act from the provincial parliament to remedy this (53). In 2008, WHO launched the mhGAP mental health global action program. In 2013, World Health Assembly adopted the Global Mental Health Action Plan 2013-2020 to which all member states including Pakistan signed a commitment. Pakistan is now a signatory of the World Health Organization’s Global Mental Health Plan. The Ministry has been working with WHO-EMRO to adapt this plan for the region and the framework is included in the Non-Communicable Diseases 30 & Mental Health National Plan of Pakistan (54). Following this, in 2015, United Nations member states adopted the sustainable development agenda 2030. Pakistan being a member of UN adopted this agenda which entails sustainable development goals (SGDs). The SDGs sets, for their signatory countries, development targets in different sectors including health and well-being (55). Since mental health has a human rights