revised in 2006. The last piece of mental health legislation was enacted in 2001, which focused on the (1) access to mental health care including access to the least restrictive care, (2)rights of mental health service consumers, (3)family members, and other care givers, (4)Competency, capacity, and guardianship issues for people with mental illness, (5)voluntary and involuntary treatment, (6) accreditation of professionals and facilities, (7)law enforcement and other judicial system issues for people with mental illness, (8)mechanisms to oversee involuntary admission and treatment practices, and (9)mechanisms to implement the provisions of mental health legislation. 0.4% of health care expenditures by the government health department are devoted to mental health. Of all the expenditures spent on mental health, 11% are devoted to mental hospitals. The rate of spending on mental hospitals is lower than other low and middle income countries (LAMICs) as Pakistan did not inherit large mental hospitals, except the one at Lahore that is being downsized, and more facilities are being set up at the district hospital level (secondary level). 5% of the population has free access (at 80% least covered) to essential psychotropic medicines. For those that pay out of pocket, the cost of antipsychotic medication is 3% and antidepressant medication is 7% of the one day minimum daily wage in the local currency. None of the mental disorder is covered by social insurance schemes. The cost of antipsychotic medication is 2 dollars per day, and the cost of antidepressant medication is 5 dollars per day. 9 GRAPH 1.1 HEALTH EXPENDITURE TOWARDS MENTAL HEALTH 99.60% 0.40% All other health expenditures Mental health expenditures GRAPH 1.2 MENTAL HEALTH EXPENDITURE TOWARDS MENTAL HOSPITALS 11% 89% Expenditures for mental hospitals All other mental health expenditures A national human rights review body exists which has the authority to oversee regular inspections in mental health facilities, review involuntary admission and discharge procedures; review complaints investigation processes; and the review body has the authority to impose sanctions (e.g. withdraw accreditation, impose penalties, or close facilities that persistently violate human rights). 100% of mental hospitals had at least one review/inspection of human rights protection of patients in 2008, while 6 % of community-based inpatient psychiatric units and community residential facilities had such a review. 100% of mental hospitals and 5% of inpatient psychiatric units & community residential facilities have had at least one day training on human rights protection of patients in the last two years.