IMPLEMENTATION OF MENTAL HEALTH POLICY IN PAKISTAN: A DREAM IN SEARCH OF REALITY? 83 EDITORIAL Pakistan, half a century after independence, became a member of the group of 60% countries of the 1 world which have a mental health policy, in 1997 . The policy covers areas of advocacy, promotion, 2 prevention; treatment and rehabilitation through inter-sectoral collaboration . In the same year, a substance 2, 3 abuse policy was also formulated which included interventions for both reduction of supply and demand . Subsequently, a two-phased national mental health plan was developed with an aim to work towards adoption of biopsychosocial model, integration of mental health at all levels of health care, public-private 2, 3 partnership and the promotion of public health approach to health care . These were preceded by a national mental health programme, part of the general health policy of the country, which was formulated 4 in 1986 and got fully implemented in 2001 after the replacement of Lunacy Act 1912 with a new Mental 3, 5 Health Ordinance 2001, in February 2001 . So does just making a mental health policy solve the mental health problems of a country? Certainly not, as without implementation, a policy is merely a piece of paper. Unfortunately this seems to be the case in Pakistan. However, the problem is not solely implementation. It started very early while chalking out the policy because the policy was developed without fully following the first pre requisite step i.e., gathering information about population needs which required formal research and rapid appraisal. Due to the non availability of basic research like national mental health morbidity data, there was very little evidence on which to base the policy. Further down the road, numerous missing links leading to a non-functional mental health policy can be figured like non-existence of any evaluative study of previous plans and programmes and lack of linking system (Information Management System). Also lacking was an effort to map out all the stakeholders and take them on board for a consensual decision making and its implementation. Thus it became impossible to draw a holistic picture in any such issue and so the vision, values, principles and objectives of the mental health policy became mere words and identification of major areas of action, and categorizing major roles and responsibilities became 6 practically impossible . A few other obstacles can be pointed out like lack of