priority health problems and more frequent. This is system is now offering tremendous opportunities for promoting evidence based decision making and improvement of expanded health care structure. This effort led to putting in place a standard system of data collection and transmission from roughly 13,000 public health services (both urban and rural). The new system is now able to promptly locate pockets of vulnerable communities reporting high disease incidence. WHO has very closely been associated with both development and launch of National Health Information Systems (63). Recently published Pakistan’s National HIS Report-2013 has made some alarming revelations and provided a comprehensive overview of National Disease profile. This report was developed after the analysis of estimated 118 million visits made to health services during 2013 in 110 districts out of a total of 140 districts of Pakistan. Out of 43 reportable diseases, 22 diseases were communicable in nature. This system is providing some useful information not only to the District Health Managers, but also to Managers of Public Health Programs (e.g. Malaria (DOTs), EPI Tuberculosis, Hepatitis, AID.HIV, EPI.)(63). 43 The NHIS information is gathered right from peripheral health facilities on monthly basis and reports sent to District Information Centers before its onward transmission to Provincial/National HIS Units. This includes information from both rural facilities and district hospitals on standard format and software. Since the devolution, all responsibilities pertaining to the health care delivery are now a provincial subject. The hierarchy at the provincial level goes through the Provincial Director General Health who is the head regulatory person; under whom comes the Divisional Director Health and following that is the Executive District OfficerHealth (EDO-H) and lastly the Medical Superintendents (MS) of hospitals (8). Both BHUs and RHCs have standard HMIS reporting instruments and plans for submission of reports to the EDO office. Currently HMIS is covering only OPDs of THQ and DHQ hospitals. Hospitals send annual Abstract Report to EDO-H, which in turn is sent to the HMIS cell in Director General Health Services (DGHS) office. The health information system does not provide much information on NCDs. The 203 facilities of the current situation analysis were also part of the DHIS reporting system. As mentioned above, pertaining to mental health, NCDs are categorized in two broad categories namely “Neuropsychiatric Diseases” (which include depression, drug dependence, and epilepsy) and “Mental Behavioral Disorder Drug Abuse” (which includes “drug abuse (psychoactive substance use)” and “mental