social workers, 22 occupational therapists, 102597 other health or mental health workers (including auxiliary staff, nondoctor/non-physician primary health care workers, health assistants, medical assistants, professional and paraprofessional psychosocial counsellors). Forty five percent of psychiatrists work only for government administered mental health facilities, 51% work only for NGOs/for profit mental health facilities/private practice, while 4% work for both the sectors. As for nurses, 6582 work in outpatient facilities, 7018 in community-based psychiatric inpatient units and 43 in mental hospitals. In regards to other health or mental health workers, 101055 work in outpatient facilities, 1308 in community-based psychiatric inpatient units and 234 in mental hospitals. In terms of staffing in mental health facilities, there are 187 psychiatrists per bed in community-based psychiatric inpatient units, in comparison to 14 psychiatrists per bed in mental hospitals. The number of professionals graduated last year in academic and educational institutions per 100,000 is as follows: 2.1 medical doctors (not specialized in psychiatry); 1.5 nurses (not specialized in psychiatry); 0.002 psychiatrists; 0.07 psychologists with at least 1 year training in mental health care; 0.008 nurses with at least 1 year training in mental health care; 0.005 social workers with at least 1 year training in mental health care; 0.002 occupational therapists with at least 1 year training in mental health care. The 1-20% of psychiatrists emigrates to other countries within five years of the completion of their training. The government provides economic support for both consumer and family associations. Family associations have been involved in the formulation or implementation of mental health policies, plans, or legislation in the past two years. Government agencies (e.g., Ministry of Health or Department of mental health services); NGOs; professional associations, private trusts; and foundations, International agencies have promoted public education and awareness campaigns in the last five years. In addition to legislative and financial support, there are formal collaborations between the government department responsible for mental health and the departments/agencies responsible for primary health care/ community health, HIV/AIDS, reproductive health, child and adolescent health, substance abuse, child protection, education, employment, housing, welfare, criminal justice, the elderly, and other departments/Agencies. 7 Introduction Pakistan is a country with an approximate geographical area of 803,940 square kilometres and a population of 160,943,000 people (WHO, 2005). The main languages used in the country are Punjabi, Sindhi, Siraiki, Pashtu, and Urdu. The main ethnic group is Punjabi and the others are Sindhi, Siraiki, Pashtun, and Muhajir.