the overall responsibility for health services policy direction and planning was devolved to the provinces. The introduction of devolution led to changes in roles of different stakeholders from top to bottom, thus re-distributing the power at various levels. As a result of which provinces and provincial authorities gained more control over health sector legislation. These stakeholders include representatives from Ministry of Health, Secretariat, District Health Managers (Executive District Officers), Managers at sub-district level and Healthcare Workers. This devolution brought some challenges for Pakistan (57); especially as a result of this devolution Pakistan lost the Federal Mental Health Program. Currently Mental health is represented by the Provincial Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD) focal person. Thus, it being not being a specific mental health representative at the provincial level. Since devolution, the major health related challenges included reorganization of the human resource regulatory function in health sector and establishment of linkages and coordination between the Federation and the Provinces in terms of formulation and regulation of policies in health sector and decisions regarding mental health at the federal level (58). To overcome these challenges, certain achievements were made in which all regulatory bodies were exempted from devolution and a new ministry i.e. Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation and Coordination was created, with the aim to enhance the regulation and accreditation of health sector including mental health. 8.5 Key Mental Health Stakeholders: Successful and sustained mental health efforts are only achieved through support from the community-at-large, as well as organizations, institutions, and other stakeholders interested in mental health, substance abuse, or the overall wellbeing of the population.Stakeholders for mental health generally include consumer and family groups; general health and mental health workers; health care providers; government agencies; academic institutions; professional institutions; traditional health workers; and religious organizations. Unfortunately most of these stakeholders do not have adequate representation in the policy making and implementation due to which mental health policy lacks effectiveness. 34 9. HUMAN RESOURCE FOR MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES IN PAKISTAN Human resource working in the field of mental health is less than optimal compared to the needs of population thus adding to the gap between burden of disease and treatment. The total number of human resource working in mental health facilities or private practice per 100,000 population is 203.07(4). The breakdown according to profession is as follows: Table 9: Human Resource for Mental Health Mental Health Professionals Numbers Rate per 100,000 population Psychiatrists