utilized for designing and implementing mental health services and support programmes in the country. Keywords: National Psychiatric Morbidity Survey, Pakistan, prevalence, psychiatric morbidity, mental health Corresponding author: Raza ur Rahman, Dean Faculty of Health & Medical Sciences Hamdard University, Karachi, Pakistan. Email: razaur@yahoo.com All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted July 8, 2024. ; https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.07.08.24310056 doi: medRxiv preprint NOTE: This preprint reports new research that has not been certified by peer review and should not be used to guide clinical practice. 2 Introduction: Pakistan is a resource limited, lower-middle-income country (LMIC) where like other low and middle-income countries psychiatric disorders are highly prevalent1. According to World Health Organization (WHO), 24 million people in Pakistan need psychiatric help2. The lack of resources to meet this need is exemplified by 0.19 psychiatrists per 100,000 population, the lowest in the world2. Psychiatric disorders are responsible for more than 4% of the total disease burden2. The appreciation of the impact of psychiatric disorders is important as they are linked to substantial disability, reduced productivity, low quality of life and worsening socioeconomic circumstances3. Our literature search did not reveal any study of the prevalence of psychiatric disorders in a nationally representative sample in Pakistan. Small-scale local surveys have shown widely varying estimates of psychiatric morbidity 5,6,7,8,9,10,11. A systematic review12 reported a prevalence rate for psychiatric morbidity ranging from 10% to 66%13. These figures are higher as compared to other developing countries with similar socioeconomic indicators6,7,8,14,15. The significant difference in prevalence among different studies is due to variation in the size of sample, the catchment area of study, operational definitions of psychiatric morbidity, study tool, methodology of study, response rates and quality of monitoring16.17. Another estimate of psychiatric disorders is based on WHO-EMRO region country profile statistics that show that 10–16% of Pakistan's general population has mild to moderate psychiatric illnesses, and 1% has severe mental illnesses18,19. In the presence of varied nationwide prevalence estimate of the different psychiatric disorders it will be difficult in Pakistan to implement an affordable, egalitarian, integrated, and data-driven mental healthcare strategy. There is growing evidence of a link between mental health conditions and non-communicable diseases (NCDs)20. The agenda-2030 of United Nation Organization (UNO) to achieve sustainable Developmental Goals