tools: The tools provided by WHO were translated and adapted into Urdu Pakistan’s national language. The items were reviewed keeping in mind the relevance of content, feasibility, cultural appropriateness, understanding, simplicity and thoroughness. 4.2 Selection of Sites: Before data collection for situation analysis started, districts and facilities for mhGAP situation analysis were selected. The details of districts and facilities are as follows: Table 1: Districts selected for mhGAP situation analysis Provinces Selected Districts Baluchistan Quetta District Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Peshawar District Sindh Hyderabad District Punjab Rawalpindi District (north Punjab) Bahawalpur District (south Punjab) As mentioned above the facility level sample was based on health systems research approach. Since primary care includes BHUs, RHCs, MCH Centers & Dispensaries and within each group the numbers varies – e.g. 33 BHUs vs 3 RHCs in one of the Tehsil’s of District Rawalpindi. A smaller proportion of BHUs were sampled compared to RHCs, MCH Centers and Dispensaries. For each district 25% of BHUs, 75% of RHCs, 75% of dispensaries and 75% of MCHC were selected. Table below outlines the proportionate sampling at various levels of primary health care facilities. 11 Table 2: Number Primary Health Care Facilities Selected for Situation Analysis Districts Number of Primary Health Care Facilities (BHUs, MCH Centers, dispensaries & RHCs) Number of Selected Primary Health Care Facilities(BHUs, MCH Centers, dispensaries & RHCs) Quetta 60 27 Peshawar 92 45 Hyderabad 57 34 Rawalpindi 127 48 Bahawalpur 100 49 Total 436 203 4.3 Levels of Data Collection 1. National-level: This level is intended to give a general health and systems assessment of the country and specific activities associated with MNS disorders. Items of the tool at this level assess political and administrative structure, economic indicators, demographic characteristics, political structure, budget and financing, general health indicators, and indicators relevant to MNS disorders. Methods of Data Collection: This was desk review based data collection. The desk review was based on, published literature, unpublished literature, WHO/UN/other sources of information including country reports of the World Bank and national documents e.g. census report etc. 2. Provincial-level: Province is defined as the first formal administrative subdivision of the country. Provincial-level data provide a more specific understanding of the provinces that contain selected sites for the situation analysis. The items on this level assess similar aspects as those at the national-level, but are specific to the selected province. Furthermore, additional items assess treatment guidelines for MNS disorders, availability of