with perinatal depression in Pakistan. Overall prevalence of epilepsy in Pakistan is estimated to be 9.99 per 1000 population. Highest prevalence seen in younger than 30 years of age. A slight decrease in prevalence has been noted among 40 and 59 years of age. Rural population seems to have a higher prevalence. Etiology of epilepsy is more commonly identified in pediatric population. Like other mental disorders, epilepsy too has a huge treatment gap. Only 27.5% epileptic persons in urban areas and 1.9% in the rural areas seemed to be treated with anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs). Clearly the burden of epilepsy in Pakistan is not fully understood and the knowledge about epilepsy and its care is reported to be extremely low (30). 23 In 2012, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) reported approximately 6% of the population of Pakistan, or 6.7 million people had used any controlled substance including misuse of prescription drugs in the year preceding the survey (31). Cannabis was the most commonly used drug, with a prevalence of 3.6% in the population, equivalent to four million users nationwide. Around 4.25 million drug users in Pakistan are considered dependent on substances and require some form of structured intervention for treatment of their drug use disorder (12, 31). This amounts to more than 99% of treatment gap for people with addictions. Stats around alcohol use and consumption in Pakistan are not readily available. However WHO published a report in 2014 with a specific focus on Pakistan regarding alcohol consumption trends from 1961 to 2010. The report stated an overall prevalence of alcohol use disorder among men and women aged 15+ at 0.5 and 0.1% respectively. Similarly prevalence of alcohol dependence among men and women aged 15+ being 0.3% and 0.1% respectively (http://www.who.int/substance_abuse/publications/global_alcohol_report/profiles/pak.pdf). While a study from the province of Punjab reported a high incidence of alcohol use among labor and middle class with a higher rural distribution (32). Behavioral problems in children effect their academic, social and personal functioning. There seem to be an increase in its prevalence in HIC settings (33). However, studies in the developing countries are reporting a higher prevalence of behavioral problems among children. There is a dearth of studies from Pakistan. Only few studies have been carried out to assess prevalence of behavioral problems in children. Prevalence of behavioral problems is reported to be around 910% and up to 34.4% parents and 35.8% teachers