A national mental health authority exists which provides advice to the government on mental health policies and legislation. The mental health authority also is involved in service planning, service management and co-ordination and in monitoring and quality assessment of mental health services. Mental health services are not organized in terms of catchment/service areas. There are 3729 outpatient mental health facilities in the country, of which 1% are for children and adolescents only. These facilities treat 343.34 users per 100,000 general population. The average number of contacts per user is 9.31. Forty-six percent of outpatient facilities provide follow-up care in the community, while 1% has mental health mobile teams. In terms of available interventions, 120% of users have received one or more psychosocial interventions in the past year. 624 Community-based psychiatric inpatient units are available in the country for a total of 1.926 beds per 100,000 population. 1% of these beds in community-based inpatient units are reserved for children and adolescents only. Five mental hospitals are available in the country; these are organizationally integrated with mental health outpatient facilities. In the last five years the number of beds in mental hospitals has raised up to four percent. In addition to beds in mental health facilities, there are also 0.02 beds for persons with mental disorders in forensic inpatient units and 1620 in other residential facilities such as homes for persons with mental retardation, detoxification inpatient facilities, homes for the destitute, etc. 6 Twenty seven percent of the training for medical doctors is devoted to mental health, in comparison to 3% nurses and 11% non-doctor/non-nurse primary health care workers. In terms of refresher training, 16% of primary health care doctors have received at least two days of refresher training in mental health, while 5% of nurses and 13% of nondoctor/non-nurse primary health care workers have received such training. The total number of human resources working in mental health facilities or private practice per 100,000 population is 87.023. The breakdown according to profession (raw numbers) are as follows: 342 psychiatrist, 25782 other medical doctors (not specialized in psychiatry), 13643 nurses, 478 psychologists, 3145 social workers, 22 occupational therapists, 102597 other health or mental health workers (including auxiliary staff, nondoctor/non-physician primary health care workers, health assistants, medical assistants, professional and paraprofessional psychosocial counsellors). Forty five percent of psychiatrists work only for government administered mental health facilities, 51% work only for NGOs/for profit mental health