economic support for both consumer and family associations. Family associations have been involved in the formulation or implementation of mental health policies, plans, or legislation in the past two years. Few (1-20%) mental health facilities have had interaction with both consumer and family. In addition to consumer and family associations, there are 18 other NGOs in the country involved in individual assistance activities such as counselling, housing, or support groups. Domain 5: Public Education and Links with Other Sectors There is a coordinating body to oversee public education and awareness campaigns on mental health and mental disorders. Government agencies (e.g., Ministry of Health or Department of mental health services); NGOs; professional associations, private trusts; and foundations, International agencies have promoted public education and awareness campaigns in the last five years. These campaigns have targeted the following groups: The general population; children; adolescents, women, trauma survivors; ethnic groups; and other vulnerable or minority groups. In addition, there have been public education and awareness campaigns targeting professional groups including health care providers (conventional; modern; allopathic); complimentary/ alternative/ traditional sector; teachers; social services staff; and other professional groups linked to the health sector. The following legislative and financial provisions exist to protect and provide support for users: (1) provisions concerning a legal obligation for employers to hire a certain percentage of employees that are disabled, (2) provisions concerning protection from discrimination (dismissal, lower wages) solely on account of mental disorder, (3) provisions concerning priority in state housing and in subsidized housing schemes for people with severe mental disorders, and (4) provisions concerning protection from discrimination in allocation of housing for people with severe mental disorders. All of these provisions exist but are not enforced. Government agencies (e.g., Ministry of Health or Department of mental health services); NGOs; professional associations, private trusts; and foundations, International agencies have promoted public education and awareness campaigns in the last five years. In addition to legislative and financial support, there are formal collaborations between the government department responsible for mental health and the departments/agencies responsible for primary health care/ community health, HIV/AIDS, reproductive health, child and adolescent health, substance abuse, child protection, education, employment, housing, welfare, criminal justice, the elderly, and other departments/Agencies. 24 In terms of support for child and adolescent health, 3% of primary and secondary schools have either a part-time or full-time mental health professional, and none of the primary and secondary schools have school-based