is a fitting one. However, many gaps in the law still remain. Also, steps such as the establishment of the Federal Mental Health Authority can only be judged by performance over the course of the coming years. Despite the progress made in comparison with the old law, the current law still falls short of standards in relevant international conventions. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its extension with regard to individuals who are mentally disabled—the Declaration of the Rights of the Mentally Retarded, can be useful guides to action. Briefly put, the latter declaration makes seven guarantees to individuals who are mentally disordered: equal rights to the maximum degree of feasibility; proper education, care, and treatment for self-development; the right to economic security and a decent standard of living; the right to live with one's own family or the closest possible alternative; the right to a qualified guardian, if necessary; protection from exploitation, abuse, and degrading treatment, and restricted civil and criminal liability; and the right that any restriction of rights must be legally monitored, must not be arbitrary, and must be subject to appeal and periodic review. Although these principles cannot be incorporated into our domestic law, by itself, they do provide standards that we must strive to meet. The recent ordinance has brought us one step closer to such compliance. But many problems still remain, so it has become ever more important that the law be subjected to periodic review by a team of experts who measure its performance with reference to the above-mentioned standards, and suggest the necessary reforms. Psychiatric training in Pakistan is at the very early stages, at both undergraduate and the postgraduate level. The health system is not well established with significant resources. Including psychiatry as a separate subject in the medical curriculum can help future doctors to recognize and to some extent treat mental health problems. It is also important that more family physicians and general practitioners are trained in recognizing mental health problems. It is not possible to arrange training in the fields of forensic psychiatry, psychotherapy, geriatric psychiatry, drug and alcohol abuse, child psychiatry and learning disability, due to a lack of training consultants. Arranging the training around cases from subspecialties certainly can help in recognizing these problems. However, lack of supervision in these fields compromises training. 29 The patients are mostly looked after by their families in Pakistan. It