by “clinics”, the small officebased practices of general practitioners. Other private sector facilities include maternal and child health centers (maternity homes), dispensaries and diagnostic laboratories (61). The health expenditure per capita in Pakistan is reported to be 750800 (US $ 12-13). It is estimated that 25% of this is contributed by public sector and rest of the 75% is invested by private service fee system. 10.2 Current Public Sector Service Resources In Pakistan the government health care facilities consist of 1096 hospitals, 5527 basic health units, 650 rural health centers and 5310 dispensaries approximately. The most basic part of PHC a BHU is located at Union Council and serves a catchment population of up to 25,000. Services provided at BHU are promotive, preventive, curative and referrals to the next level. Outreach/community based services are part of the package provided by the BHU. BHU provides all PHC services along with integral services that include basic medical and surgical care, CDD, CDC, ARI, malaria and TB control. MCH services are also part of the services package being provided at BHU. BHUs provide first level referral to patients referred by LHWs. BHUs refer patients to higher level facilities as and when necessary. The BHU also provides clinical, logistical and managerial support to the LHWs. It also serves as a focal point, where community and the public sector health functionaries may come together to resolve issues concerning health. 40 The RHCs have 10-20 inpatient beds and each serves a catchment population of up to 100,000 people. The RHCs provide promotive, preventive, curative, diagnostic and referral services along with inpatient services. The RHCs also provide clinical, logistical and managerial support to the BHUs, LHWs, MCH Centers, and Dispensaries that fall within its geographical limits. RHCs provide medico-legal, basic surgical, dental and ambulance services. Of note – no mental health services at primary and even secondary level are available. The staff of PHCs is not equipped with mental health skills to diagnose treat or manage mental health patients nor are they provided with guidelines for making referrals. Similarly they do not have facilities (eg psychotropic drugs) for the management of mental disorders. The services provided at PHCs are mostly for common communicable diseases, seasonal infections and maternal and child health. Due to the lack of facilities, the users directly approach go to the tertiary care facilities even for routine care let alone in cases of psychiatric