in Pakistan suffers from a mental disorder. There is an urgent need to take steps to reduce this disease burden. In response to the agenda 2030 of UNO for attaining SDG, the future mental health policy of Pakistan is moving towards the implementation of the bio-psychosocial model in which the psychological health is integrated into medical care. These policy initiatives set the trends for the next 5-Year Plan of Pakistan that is based on the principles of resources creation, community awareness, and establishment of feasible services that are affordable and accessible to all68. To facilitate the accomplishment of this policy, the NPMS provides sound evidence-based data about psychiatric disorders in Pakistan. Acknowledgements Team National Psychiatric Morbidity Survey (NPMS) is extremely thankful to the Pakistan Psychiatric Society and York University group for their financial support in carrying out the survey. We sincerely appreciate the advice provided by the National Expert Panel and National Technical Advisory Group members. Our sincere thanks to the Pakistan bureau of statistics and other government representatives for their valuable support during the various NPMS implementation phases. We would like to officially express our profound gratitude to every person and their families throughout Pakistan for their participation in the execution of the NPMS. Author contributions All authors contributed to the design, planning and data collection for the study. The manuscript was drafted by Prof Raza ur Rahman. All authors critically reviewed and edited the draft manuscript for intellectual content and approved the final version after incorporating necessary changes. The corresponding author certifies that every listed author satisfies the requirements for authorship criteria and that no other qualified author has been left out. The group of partners for the National Psychiatric Morbidity Survey (NPMS) made data collecting possible in four Pakistani regions. Conflict of interest All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted July 8, 2024. ; https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.07.08.24310056 doi: medRxiv preprint 11 The authors have declared that they have no financial affiliations with any organisations that could be interested in the work they have submitted, nor have they engaged in any other activities or relationships that might have had an impact on the work. These disclosures span the last five years. Ethical approval The National Bioethics Committee of