picture in any such issue and so the vision, values, principles and objectives of the mental health policy became mere words and identification of major areas of action, and categorizing major roles and responsibilities became 6 practically impossible . A few other obstacles can be pointed out like lack of human resources and political will to improve mental health; lack of evidence about the needs of the population; allocation of a very small mental health budget; and a non existing national health system which overall creates a disbelief in the 7 genuineness of any mental health policy and thus may lead to failure . So what to do? We must not to start reinventing the wheel. We will need to focus on guiding principles of policy making described by World Health Organization and restructure our policy. But this will still need an evidence base to start. This can be addressed through a priority role by Pakistan Medical and Research Council by granting funds and/or incentives in the field of research, especially mental health research. This is urgently needed in view of fact that during a period of 10 years (1993-2004) only 108 Pakistani publications in all have appeared in Indexed journals (77.8% Medline, 22.2% psychInfo) with 8 only one Randomized Control Trial . The College of Physicians and Surgeons Pakistan, the postgraduate degree awarding institute, should also encourage students through their respective supervisors, to be involved in prevalence studies. These may serve as pilot projects, with a comparatively smaller sample size, to gather evidence for useful strategy implementation in the whole country. Existing plans and strategies need to be reviewed for continuation of their positive aspects and discontinuation of their 1 negative points . JPMI Muhammad Irfan Department of Psychiatry Lady Reading Hospital Peshawar Pakistan Stakeholders such as consumer and family groups; general health and mental health workers; health care providers; government agencies; academic institutions; professional institutions; traditional 9 health workers; and religious organizations should be involved. The capacity in terms of human resources should be developed by carefully identifying areas of action. The liaison with other countries and international experts for formulating cost effective interventions should be supported. These actions will need political will. A positive political attitude should be created by highlighting the importance of mental health on all concerned forums especially using media. This will lead to an environment which is based on understanding and trust, helpful