keeping in mind the dearth of professionals for a very large population. 19 6. AWARENESS AND UNDERSTANDING OF THE PUBLIC ABOUT MNS DISORDERS The reach and accessibility of MNS care requires further expansion as indicated in previous sections. To help this there have been some efforts both by the public and private sectors. At the national level, there have been awareness and advocacy movements or programs on mental health going on in Pakistan. Government agencies (e.g., Ministry of Health or Department of mental health services), NGOs, professional associations, private trusts, and Foundations, International agencies have promoted public education and awareness campaigns regarding mental health in the last decade. These campaigns have targeted the general population; children, adolescents, women, trauma survivors, ethnic groups and other vulnerable groups. In addition, there have been public education and awareness campaigns targeting professional groups including health care providers (conventional, modern, and allopathic), complimentary/ alternative/ traditional sector, teachers, social services staff, and other professional groups linked to the health sector. The prime goal of these campaigns, apart from general awareness raising and promoting treatment through medication or counseling/psychotherapy and/or both, has been to address stigma attached with mental illnesses and its treatment. In terms of support for child and adolescent health, only 3% of primary and secondary schools have a part-time or full-time mental health professional, and none of the primary and secondary schools have school-based activities to promote mental health and prevent mental disorders. Regarding mental health for imprisoned persons, it is reported that up to 20% of prisons encounter at least one imprisoned person a month in need of a mental health professional. However the health practitioners in jails either have no or minimal training regarding detecting and treating MNS disorders. The same situation prevails across police department and judicial fraternity. In terms of financial support for users, no mental health facilities have access to programs outside the mental health facility that provide outside employment for users with severe mental disorders (11). 20 Few years back, some campaigns were also launched on the awareness of drug abuse. The major aim of these campaigns was to raise public awareness on drugs and their harmful effects on individuals, families and society at large with a special focus on youth in the educational institutions, teachers, parents and religious leaders. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), in collaboration with the Ministry of Interior and Narcotics