that the mental health situation of Pakistan in terms of the burden of mental disorders is far from optimal. Pakistan has one of the highest rates of common mental disorders (including maternal depression) in the region. Similarly one of the highest rates of developmental delays are also reported from Pakistan. Prevalence of other priority conditions like self-harm/suicide, epilepsy, substance abuse and dementia are seemingly on the rise. All the mental health disorders and conditions have a huge treatment gap secondary to the scarcity of mental health professionals. Pakistan clearly needs to improve the mental health surveillance and reporting on all the priority conditions, as defined by WHO. There are mental health indicators present in the current DHIS, however the categorization of neuro-psychiatric disorders needs to be reviewed. Similarly the information from teaching hospitals (where mental health facilities are based and accessed) needs to be made more readily available eg the number of in-door patients and type of disorders treated. This will especially be needed once mhGAP is rolled out beyond the 5 pilot districts and starts to get scaled-up in other PHC facilities. DHIS is the only means to help in the decision making for mhGAP refresher trainings and/or course correction of mhGAP implementation. There is scope and room to add more indicators to help cover other priority mental health conditions (eg suicide/self-harm and dementia, developmental delays) apart for the ones that are currently covered in the DHIS. In terms of the mental health policy and especially after the devolution, Pakistan seems to be on the right trajectory and has positioned mental health well. This is reflected in the 2014-2024 program on NCD&MH, which is an excellent starting point for mental health. Furthermore, being a signatory on the WHO EMRO Regional Framework has provided the necessary impetus to this and the integration of WHO mhGAP at the PHC level. Along with this, the recent revision of the National Essential Medicines List (NEML) and the inclusion of psychotropic drugs and their 46 availability at the PHC level is also a favorable feature for the treatment of mental disorders and integration of mhGAP at PHC level. The challenge will be the implementation of these policies at the provincial, district and facility levels. The key barriers to the implementation, as seen in this situational analysis, will be; i) At the Facility Level: It was clear from the situation analysis that PHC facilities did