PUBLIC MENTAL HEALTH: AN AGENDA FOR ACTION? disorders and the promotion of well-being, with an emphasis on looking at/reviewing public health principles within the 5, 6 mental health domains. Public perceptions of mental wellbeing are changing, and there is a burgeoning commitment among societies and governments to change the way, we perceive it. There is emerging an agreement on what needs to change, as well as a genuine desire to endorse good mental health, prevent issues from arising, and to develop mental health services. Many mental health conditions today can be treated satisfactorily and cost effectively. This fact demands attention to the numerous actions that must be undertaken on all fronts, such as measures to increase the understanding of mental health and reduce the stigma surrounding it. The World Health Organisation's recent World Mental Health Report, "Transforming Mental Health for All," aims to inspire and inform everyone everywhere. It emphasises why and where change is most needed, as well as how it may be effectively 2 achieved. The aim of public health is to encouragea healthy way of life while also identifying, averting, and responding to illnesses. In view of the significant prevalence of mental health issues that affect people's physical and communal well-being, mental health automatically becomes critical in achieving public health goals. Several public health experts define public mental health as both the study and artistry of endorsing mental health and well-being, in addition to preventing related issues at the individual, family, community, and organisational levels. As a consequence, public mental health focuses on a variety of approaches for improving coverage, outcomes, and utilization of effective interventions to prevent the emergence of mental disorders, avoid the coupled consequences such as treatment, and promote mental 7 wellbeing and resilience. PAGE 04 EDITORIAL AFZAL JAVED President, World Psychiatric Association Consultant Psychiatrist, Honorary Professor Institute of Applied Health Research, University of Birmingham, UK. Honorary Associate Clinical Professor, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, UK. Chair, Pakistan Psychiatric Research Centre, Fountain House, Lahore, Pakistan ABSTRACT KEYWORDS Mental disorders comprise 20 to 25% of the global burden of diseases. This large number could have been underestimated, as poor mental health has widespread implications, and is often labeled under other headings;for mental disorders often manifest sometimes earlier than in adulthood, with a wide range of consequences in health, learning, work ethics, dysfunctional relationships, criminality, private and public violence, and stigma. It is unfortunate that