of mental disorders59. But there is difference between men and women in relation to pattern of psychiatric disorders and their symptoms i.e. women suffer from higher rates of depression and anxiety (referred to as internalizing disorders), and men have higher rates of substance abuse and antisocial disorders (referred to as externalizing disorders).60,61. We found that compared to rural areas, the risk of psychiatric morbidity was higher in urban areas (Table 4). This may be due to factors related to the onset of psychiatric illness and better availability of services for early diagnosis in urban areas. Nuclear families, migration, changing lifestyles, competitive life and work environments in cities along with the presence of vulnerable congregations like slums are some of the factors that could be responsible for the higher rate of psychiatric morbidity in urban areas. Factors supporting identification and management of psychiatric illness include; improved services for mental health care, increased awareness of mental health through media and technology62. Pakistan is experiencing rapid urbanisation with an increase in the number of people living in cities. In 2017 36.4% (94 million) people were residing in cities and by 2025 50% will be living in cities 63. Considering the urbanization trends there is a dire need to strengthen the mental health programmes in cities and to integrate mental health services into other development policies and activities in urban areas. It is well known that the burden of psychiatric morbidity is higher in low and middle-income nations. The results of the NPMS study confirm that people from economically disadvantaged and socially marginalised groups in society had greater risk and prevalence of psychiatric illness. The socioeconomic environment contributes to the development of common psychiatric disorders64. A higher burden of psychiatric morbidity in this population may be caused by a number of factors, including the economic deprivation leading to a heightened vulnerability and restricted access to mental health care that further lowers productivity and family income 9,65,66. This heightened socioeconomic burden can be prevented through early intervention in vulnerable groups through partnerships with several government departments, civic society organisations and other stakeholders64. Mental health care can be made part of national health initiatives. Increasing rehabilitation and support services available to low-income people and families and implementing initiatives to reduce stigma at every stage would lessen the burden. Due to growing knowledge about the connection between mental health and NCD (non-communicable diseases), and productivity at work,