under MoNHSRC in 2022, which is renotified in 2025. They have developed a Theory of Change for the WHO’s Helping Adolescents Thrive (HAT) program for adolescents, translated it into Urdu, and piloted it in Rawalpindi with the support of clinical psychologists from Shifa Tameer-e-Milat University (STMU); the program is currently pending MoNHSRC’s endorsement. Moving on, UNICEF is implementing the HAT program in Rawalpindi 4 www.mhpss.pk PPMI Complex mhspcu@gmail.com H8/1 Islamabad division through STMU’s internal funding and plan to conduct research based on implementation data. They are planning their expansion from 2025–2027 in Muzafargarh, South Punjab, in collaboration with local partners. 13. Integrated Flood Resilience and Adaptation Project (IFRAP), FPMU IFRAP expressed that their primary purpose is to provide housing and infrastructure, their participation aimed to better understand MHPSS needs. IFRAP acknowledged the importance of integrating MHPSS into broader development agendas. IFRAP suggested to incorporate AI and use of mobile applications in MHPSS services as a long-term goal and emphasized the need for baseline data to support such integration. 14. National Stop Transmission of Polio (NSTOP) Program The NSTOP representative commented on the scalability of the MHPSS model, particularly its potential to extend mental health services to the underserved population across the country. With a workforce of approximately 200,000 health personnel including LHWs and community workers, NSTOP highlighted the opportunity to rapidly scale the model using their existing infrastructure. They recommended tailoring interventions to specific needs, such as disasters and disease outbreaks, and emphasized the importance of integrating mental health services into primary healthcare. They expressed interest in collaboration with MoPD&SI and their partners for its implementation in their programme across the country. 15. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) The UNHCR staff outlined its ongoing MHPSS collaborations with IMC, Danish, and Aspire Pakistan across multiple provinces, focused on community-based services and capacity building for refugees, asylum seekers, and cardholders. They highlighted challenges due to recent funding cuts, particularly affecting training and counselling. UNHCR emphasized the holistic nature of its MHPSS approach and acknowledged coordination gaps, which the MHSPCU is expected to address. Reflecting on lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic, they stressed the need for continued collaboration and are gradually working toward a more organized and unified MHPSS response. 16. Handicap International Handicap International reported three active MHPSS projects in eight districts of KP. Their work includes capacity-building for both government and non-government officials through GIZ, facilitybased mental health services