can be made part of national health initiatives. Increasing rehabilitation and support services available to low-income people and families and implementing initiatives to reduce stigma at every stage would lessen the burden. Due to growing knowledge about the connection between mental health and NCD (non-communicable diseases), and productivity at work, mental health has become a higher concern in recent years. The establishment of federal and provincial Mental Health Authorities to register and regulate mental health services and handle grievances is a positive step towards the National Health Vision of Pakistan 2016–202567. The evidence-based, valid nationwide data captured by this NPMS can serve as a valuable baseline to evaluate the progress and success of these policies and programs in the future. Limitations Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan were not included in the NPMS , however, the surveyed provincial population is representative as it covers different areas of the country. In NPMS children, homeless and institutionalised persons with psychiatric illness were not included, which may have led to a slight underestimation of All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. The copyright holder for this preprint this version posted July 8, 2024. ; https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.07.08.24310056 doi: medRxiv preprint 10 prevalence rates. Because of the practical challenges in screening and gathering data, institutionalised, homeless, or imprisoned persons were not included in this survey. Variations in health systems between provinces, as well as sociocultural and economic conditions, may have had an impact on the outcomes at the national level. Because of the religious beliefs, family shame associated with suicidality, potential legal repercussions and overall stigma, it is possible that the rates of acknowledged suicidality and lifetime suicide attempts could be underreported. Conclusion The results of the NPMS clearly shows that psychiatric disorders are a major public health issue with higher prevalence in middle-aged people, rural locations, lower income groups, and those with less education. The commonest psychiatric disorders are neurotic and mood disorders. It can be concluded that one out of every three adults in Pakistan suffers from a mental disorder. There is an urgent need to take steps to reduce this disease burden. In response to the agenda 2030 of UNO for attaining SDG, the future mental health policy of Pakistan is moving towards the implementation of the bio-psychosocial model in which the