1 www.mhpss.pk PPMI Complex mhspcu@gmail.com H8/1 Islamabad Report on National Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) Coordination Meeting 24th May 2025, Islamabad The first national MHPSS coordination meeting was held on 6th May 2025 at the Health Section, PPMI Complex, Ministry of Planning, Development & Special Initiatives (MoPD&SI). This was attended by key stakeholders both in-person and online (list attached). Objectives of the meeting 1. To highlight the role of MHPSS within the National Development Portfolio 2. To introduce the Mental Health Strategic Planning & Coordination Unit (MHSPCU) 3. To introduce the Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) Model 4. To coordinate with all stakeholders and conduct an initial review of their initiatives 5. To deliberate on the next steps Proceedings of the meeting 1. Opening remarks: Dr Saima Bashir, Member SSD, Planning Commission 2. The MHPSS Model: Dr Asma Humayun, National Technical Advisor, MHSPCU 3. National MHPSS Coordination & Implementation Framework: Dr. Muhammad Asif, Chief Health 4. SSARC Project overview: Ms Heidi Herrmann, Commission Manager, SSARC 5. MHPSS in KP: Dr Mussawir Manzoor, Department of Health, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) The following is a summary of the initiatives and comments shared by the participants related to the scope of their work related to Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS). 1. Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination (MoNHSR&C) The MoNHSR&C reaffirmed their alignment with MoPD&SI on MHPSS priorities, particularly within the broader framework of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and mental health. They have constituted a Sub-committee for Mental Health (Promotion, Prevention & Treatment) under the Technical Working Group (TWG) in NCDs & Mental Health. 2. Department of Health, Government of Balochistan The Balochistan Health Department highlighted the need for MHPSS services in light of ongoing security concerns. They emphasized the importance of multi-sectoral coordination for effective implementation. The government of Balochistan enacted a Mental Health Act in 2019, but national intersectoral support is needed for its implementation because of gaps in expert resources. 2 www.mhpss.pk PPMI Complex mhspcu@gmail.com H8/1 Islamabad 3. Department of Health, Government of AJK The department acknowledged the growing mental health needs in AJK, and their constraints of limited budget and specialist resources. The department highlighted the long-term societal and individual impacts of mental health issues and the need of the hour to collaborate and work on this. The department expressed interest in addressing training gaps for psychologists and primary care providers, as well as tackling stigma