for the management of mental disorders. The services provided at PHCs are mostly for common communicable diseases, seasonal infections and maternal and child health. Due to the lack of facilities, the users directly approach go to the tertiary care facilities even for routine care let alone in cases of psychiatric emergencies. 10.3 Provision of Drugs at Primary Health Care: Recently the Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan and the Ministry of National Health Services Regulations and Coordination with the support of USAID and WHO revised and updated the National Essential Medicines List (NEML) in 2016 after the devolution in June 2011 (Link:http://202.83.164.29/drap/userfiles1/file/National%20ESSENTIAL%20MEDICINES%20LIST%2 02016%20reduced.pdf). This was part of Pakistan government’s commitment to have its public laws and policies consistent to the obligations to the international treaties. Furthermore the NEML forms a tool to provide general public access to essential medicines. And the provinces can use this to develop their own lists, formularies for its effective implementation. The NEML provides the following categories of drugs used for mental health and provides guidance as to which level of health care system these ought to be available. 1) Antipsychotics: Includes Haloperidol in injection, tablet and suspension form. With 0.5mg, 2mg and 5mg strength and to be available at the Secondary and Tertiary levels 2) Antidepressants: Amitriptyline 10mg and 25mg tablet form available at the Tertiary level. Fluoxetine 20 mg in capsule form to be available at all three levels (Primary, Secondary and Tertiary). 41 3) Antiepileptic Drugs (AEDs): Carbamazepine and Valproic Acid in tablet and suspension form available at all three levels (Primary, Secondary and Tertiary). While Injectable Valproic Acid only available at Tertiary care level. Both these drugs are also used as Mood Stabilizers in Bipolar Disorder. While Diazepam which is both an AED and a sedative is available at all three levels During the facility based inquiry within the 5 pilot districts, specific questions on the availability of psychotropic drugs was asked. It was seen that most of Basic Health Units were under stocked with general medicines and the facility in-charge were not fully aware of the essential drug list (even its previous versions). All of the BHU based staff reported that psychotropic medicines were not part of list of drugs that were regularly supplied to them. The same was true at the DHIS level regarding the information of drugs stock out and none of the drugs listed in the DHIS had psychotropic