alcohol abuse, child psychiatry and learning disability, due to a lack of training consultants. Arranging the training around cases from subspecialties certainly can help in recognizing these problems. However, lack of supervision in these fields compromises training. 29 The patients are mostly looked after by their families in Pakistan. It is therefore important that training is focused on community based psychiatry. Drug abuse problem in Pakistan is on a rise and most patients are treated by non psychiatric doctors. It will make some sense to include more cases of drug abuse as a vital part of the training system. Psychological therapies are not readily available in Pakistan. Psychologists mostly provide counseling using an eclectic approach. There is currently no psychotherapist working in national health system in Pakistan. Interactive work with trained clinical psychologist can play a vital role in terms of psychotherapies and counseling. Placing more emphasis on training in psychotherapy will certainly improve psychiatric care. Family is an important resource, and psychotherapies in this area can be used to improve patient care. 30 The World Health Organization Assessment Instrument for Mental Health Systems (WHO-AIMS) was used to collect information on the mental health system in Pakistan. The goal of collecting this information is to improve the mental health system and to provide a baseline for monitoring the change. Data was collected on six domains of the WHO-AIMS tool, Policy and Legislative Framework; Mental Health Services; Mental Health in Primary Health Care; Human Resources; Public Education and Links with other Sectors; and Research and Monitoring. Results will enable Pakistan to develop information-based mental health plans with clear base-line information and targets. It will also be useful to monitor progress in implementing reform policies, providing community services, and involving users, families and other stakeholders in mental health promotion, prevention, care and rehabilitation.