health staff in these facilities are usually local residents who understand the needs of community and mode of communication, and are very familiar with the stigma associated to mental health in their respective communities. These characteristics will make it easier for patients and their families to approach and discuss mental health issues if the staff at the primary health care level is equipped in dealing with these disorders and MNS related services are provided at primary health care level. Integrating mental health (including both mental health and substance use disorders) at primary health care level requires training of health care teams for both mental health and medical services. The primary health workforce needs to have both skills and training to address a broad spectrum of mental and physical health care needs – which is a challenge. This will need mechanisms to ensure continual supervision of the workforce is available at the district level. The transformation will take time and resources, with support (including data and analysis, planning, policies, and funding) needed at the national, provincial, district and community level. 39 10. DELIVERY OF CARE IN NON-SPECIALISED AND SPECIALISED HEALTH SETTINGS 10.1 Current Service Resources: The Pakistani health system is divided into public and private sectors. The Government is by far the major provider of services in rural areas, and it is also the main provider of preventive care throughout the country. PHC facilities include Basic Health Units (BHUs) and Rural Health centers (RHCs) mainly for preventive and outpatient care and also manages outreach and community-based activities, which focus on immunization, sanitation, malaria control, maternal and child health and family planning; the Secondary Health Care Facilities of Tehsil Headquarters Hospital (THQH) and District Headquarters Hospital (DHQ Hospitals) for inpatient and outpatient care; and tertiary care hospitals are for more specialized care which comprise of teaching hospitals mostly located in big cities. In addition, Pakistan military, railways and airlines also have their own health care services available for their employees and families. Private health sectors are well organized bodies offering services, but on charge basis. The private health services sector is dominated by “clinics”, the small officebased practices of general practitioners. Other private sector facilities include maternal and child health centers (maternity homes), dispensaries and diagnostic laboratories (61). The health expenditure per capita in Pakistan is reported to be 750800 (US $ 12-13). It is estimated that 25% of this is contributed