etc.) caused by human disposal of wastes majorly excreta put their impression directly to the sources of surface and ground water. However, sources of surface and ground water impress each other with their direct effects on sources of drinking water, respectively. Surface water on contamination cause communicable diseases directly or indirectly but ground water which is interlinked with surface water indirectly brings communicable diseases by contaminating the drinking water. Research Type & Approach The entire research work is exploratory and is defined as the initial research into a hypothetical or theoretical idea. In exploratory research, researcher has an idea or has observed something to understand more about it. The nature of this exploratory research is to determine futuristic approach about feasibility of initial ground work. The inductive approach which is often called bottom up approach is used to precede this study. This study makes use of quantitative statistical tools to evaluate objectives and test the potential hypothesis of the study. It makes use of micro data of nationally representative household surveys. To bring out the micro level evidence for mainstreaming the sub national level health policies, this study make use of national, provincial and sub provincial level data. According to Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (2012-13) piloted by National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS) provide comprehensive details on child health. This survey is based on two stage provincial sample design covering country districts including Islamabad, Punjab, Sindh, Balochistan, Gilgit-Baltistan and KPK. Micro Data of PDHS have selected to evaluate to impact of environmental, socioeconomic, demographic and background factors on incidence of diarrhea. Multiple indicators Cluster Survey (MICS 2014) is well recognized micro data for analyzing the child health outcomes. It is a tool to provide the district level development indicators instrumented by UNICEF globally over last few decades. District Level Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey (MICS), published in 2014 from Punjab and Sindh Bureau of Statistics, will provide information of diarrhea prevalence in two weeks earlier the study. Both if MICS surveys provide the district level provincial estimates from Punjab and Sindh regions. Following is the samples size for MICS (2014). Table 1. Sample Size of Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey Region Sample Households Children (0-59 months) Punjab 41413 (97.6% response) 47841 Sindh 19360 (94.4% response) 47202 1 MICS (2014) Punjab Report, Page 58, Table CH.5: Care-seeking during diarrhea 2 MICS (2014) Sindh Report, Page 51, Table CH.5: Care-seeking during diarrhea Limitations