The WTA measure for the reduction in water quality for the entire population of Delhi has been estimated using cost-of-illness (COI) framework eventually. Dwight, Fernandez, Baker, Semenza and Olsen (2005) also utilised an extensive COI approach to value the GI, ARI, ear and eye ailments resulting from polluted recreational waters in Orange County, California. The resulting costs are considerable which can be utilised along with the public health cost variable introduced in the paper for CBA purposes when devising abatement strategies. Realising the increasing prominence of non-point source pollution, Baerenklau, Bishop and Stumborg (2001) employed a contingent valuation study to estimate the WTP of Wisconsin residents for improvement in the water quality of Lake Mendota. Using a Tobit estimation technique, the study realised that there will be considerable possible aggregate net benefits in the future if the plan of Improvement in the recreational site in undertaken. However, it also points out the recurring theme in literature that utilising Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water 923 market interest rates for discounting costs and benefits fails to capture all aspects of the intertemporal decision-making process. Estimation of WTP for water pollution abatement in several European remote lakes was also carried out by Mahieu and Giergiczny (2012); however, they employed an interval data model using data collected through payment card method. Ramajo-Hernandez and Saz-Salazar (2012) also conducted a similar CV study for the Guadiana River Basin of Spain and estimated WTP using logit and spike models to account for null WTP. Barton (2002) and Barton and Mourato (2003) undertook nearly identical studies to assess the reliability of benefit transfer methods to value water quality improvement. Barton (2002) conducted the study at two different sites in Costa Rica, carrying out contingent valuation studies at the two places; while Barton and Mourato (2003) targeted seafronts in Costa Rica and Portugal. The studies do not find any evidence of the benefit function transfer performing better than other benefit transfer methods, as propagated in the literature. Barton (2002) also rejects the claim that transferability of benefit is directly related to the proximity of the two sites, while also encouraging the idea of finding different sites and attempting to control for these differences. Barton and Mourato (2003) have advised against the usage of benefit transfer for policy analysis since it could lead to very unhealthy results. Loomis, Bell, Cooney and Asmus (2009) adopted a choice experiment method