is the 2012-13 Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS). The National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS) undertook the responsibility of implementing the 2012-13 PDHS project, and the project Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water 925 was executed by the Pakistan Planning and Development Division (Islamabad). The Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (PBS) provided the sample design and household listings for the sampled areas across the country. The funding for the survey was provided by the United States Introduction Agency for International Development (USAID), while technical and logistical support was provided by ICF International through its measure DHS project. For the Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) 2012-13, the target sample was the entire population of the nation except for the population residing in Azad Jammu and Kashmir, FATA, and restricted military and protected areas. Taking into consideration the 1998 Population Census, the population of the country has been ramified into urban and rural areas of the four provinces and the GB area. Furthermore, all urban cities and towns have been categorised into mutually exclusive, small areas, known as enumeration blocks which have clear boundaries on the map and comprise of about 200 to 250 households on average. These were further categorised into low-, middle-, and high-income categories. However, owing to the absence of any such ramification in rural areas, lists of villages/mouzas/dehs developed through the 1998 population census were used as the sample frame. Ultimately, the sample was comprised of 14,000 households which were deemed adequate for high precision results by the survey. To select individual households in the second round of the sampling, 28 households were selected by applying a systematic sampling technique with a random start. This resulted in 14,000 households being selected (6,944 in urban areas and 7,056 in rural areas) with a response rate of 96 percent [PDHS (2012-13)]. 3. MODEL AND ESTIMATION METHOD 3.1. Theoretical Framework Most of the formal models used for deriving the value of reduced morbidity use some variant of the health production function first developed by Grossman (1972). Since then, numerous models have been formulated to explore different aspects of the health production function. While Cropper (1981) explored the consequences of introducing pollution variables in the health production function, Harrington and Portney (1987) extended the framework to a model deriving individual choice in terms of willingness-topay. The following model of defensive behaviour and illness is based on the treatment by Alberini,