uncertainty among Afghan populations. Afghan women and girls are especially vulnerable under these conditions. SECTOR NEEDS 5.9 million people in need of health assistance17 29 million Children and women in need of nutrition services18,19 8.6 million children in need of protection services20 1.7 million children in need of education support21 3.6 million People need WASH services22 STORY FROM THE FIELD As part of its flood emergency response, UNICEF partnered with the School Education Department, Balochistan Province, to help children resume their education. A transitional school structure was constructed in Goth Khuda Baksh Rind, an area that was severely affected by the floods of August 2022. This structure is a quick-fix construction and is climate-resilient because it is constructed on elevated ground to mitigate the risk of damage during future floods. The building is equipped with functioning toilets and provides access to safe drinking water. Read more about this story here Children walk to a transitional school structure that was built by UNICEF in Goth Khuda Baksh Rind, Balochistan after the devastating floods of 2022 washed away the children's school. ©UNICEF/Pak2024/Saiyna Bashir 2 HUMANITARIAN STRATEGY23,24,25 In 2025, UNICEF will continue supporting the Government of Pakistan in delivering integrated life-saving services during humanitarian crises, in line with the Core Commitments for Children in Humanitarian Action. UNICEF will help the Government and the National Disaster Management Authority prepare for emergencies by addressing existing inequities, strengthening the resilience of essential services and ensuring climate-resilient infrastructure. Contingency plans promoting localization, pre-positioning of supplies and standby partnerships will enable rapid humanitarian responses. UNICEF will work through existing systems to provide essential services to prevent malnutrition and strengthen nutrition information systems. Pregnant and lactating women and adolescent girls will receive iron and folic acid and multiple micronutrient supplements to combat nutritional deficiencies, while severely wasted children will be enrolled in treatment programmes. Support groups for parents will be strengthened to enhance infant and young child feeding practices. UNICEF will support health services, including antenatal care and measles vaccinations, through mobile teams in the immediate aftermath of an emergency. This will transition back to functional health-care facilities, when possible, supported by community health workers who will raise awareness of healthy practices to safeguard against disease outbreaks and malnutrition. WASH plays a vital role in responding to emergencies, contributing to nutrition, health and well-being of children and their families. WASH initiatives will ensure access to safe water, sanitation and