possible, supported by community health workers who will raise awareness of healthy practices to safeguard against disease outbreaks and malnutrition. WASH plays a vital role in responding to emergencies, contributing to nutrition, health and well-being of children and their families. WASH initiatives will ensure access to safe water, sanitation and hygiene education, complemented by solid waste management. UNICEF will ensure access to WASH infrastructure in schools, child-friendly spaces and health-care facilities. In emergencies, UNICEF will ensure education and learning continuity by providing temporary learning centres and transitional school structures where schools are completely or partially destroyed; supplying education materials; training teachers; and engaging communities to ensure children’s enrolment and retention. UNICEF will strengthen child protection and gender-based violence response systems at the provincial and community levels, supporting the social service workforce to extend prevention and response services. UNICEF will support providing key information, along with mental health and psychosocial support and integrated activities, for children at risk and survivors of violence, abuse, neglect and exploitation, including for unaccompanied and separated children. Protection from sexual exploitation and abuse underlines all UNICEF programming with partners. UNICEF will implement integrated social and behaviour change interventions through community engagement to improve knowledge of and access to essential services and on adopting lifesaving practices to reduce vulnerability. UNICEF will develop and roll out an integrated framework for accountability to affected populations, considering in particular girls, women and disabled persons. UNICEF will engage community-based structures to mainstream protection, mitigate gender-based violence and establish complaint and feedback mechanisms. Progress against the latest programme targets is available in the humanitarian situation reports: https://www.unicef.org/appeals/pakistan/situation-reports This appeal is aligned with the revised Core Commitments for Children in Humanitarian Action, which are based on global standards and norms for humanitarian action. 2025 PROGRAMME TARGETS Health (including public health emergencies) 1,422,220 children and women accessing primary health care in UNICEF-supported facilities 26,27 113,777 live births that were delivered in health facilities in UNICEF-supported areas 284,444 pregnant women receiving antenatal care Nutrition28 256,504 children 6-59 months with severe wasting admitted for treatment29 1,136,984 primary caregivers of children 0-23 months receiving infant and young child feeding counselling 529,380 children 6-59 months receiving micronutrient powder 2,084,470 Adolocents reached with Iron and Folic Acid (IFA) supplements Child protection, GBViE and PSEA 143,536 children, adolescents and caregivers accessing community-based mental health and psychosocial support 1,349,460 women, girls and boys accessing gender-based violence risk mitigation, prevention and/or response