the progress on the SDG target 6.1, for setting the baselines and targets, and for planning and management of this precious resource. The current report presents the water quality status of 29 major cities and trend analysis of 26 cities with respect to water quality improvement. The report also outlines gaps for slow paced improvements of drinking water quality to achieve SDG target 6.1 by 2030. The objectives of water quality monitoring programme were: 1. Produce quantitative information on the detection of national drinking water standards violations. 2. Analyze safe water quality improvement trend and assessing changes over time. 3. Identify emerging water quality problems and to support water supply service providers for taking remedial measures. 3 Chapter 2: Materials and Methods The general methodological approach used to monitor the drinking water quality at national level comprised establishing the network of monitoring stations for sampling, sampling design and sampling frequency, field and laboratory testing, recording the groundwater level etc. The detailed methods implied are discussed as below: 2.1 Water Quality Monitoring Network The 2020 national level water quality monitoring program is extended from 26 cities in 2015 to 29 main cities encompassing Federal Capital (Islamabad), Punjab (11 cities), Sindh (7 cities), Balochistan (4 cities), Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (4 cities), Gilgit-Baltistan (1 city) and Azad Jammu Kashmir (1 city). The population and area based selection of main cities for this program is aimed to undertake impact monitoring through valid and representative sampling strategy (Figure 1). Figure 1: Selected cities for National Water Quality Monitoring Network As reflected in Figure 1, the country is divided into 7 zones for water quality data collection purposes namely: Federal Capital Territory Area, Punjab, Sindh, Balochistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Azad Jammu Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan. PCRWR field teams 4 of the regional and district laboratories were assigned the sampling and field data collection tasks in the respective zones. Details of the Monitoring Stations (MS) and their areas of responsibility for collection of water samples are given in Table 1. Table 1: Detail of monitoring station and cities Zone Monitoring Station Monitoring Cities Federal Capital Territory Area NWQL, Islamabad Rawalpindi and Islamabad Punjab Regional Office, Lahore Lahore, Sheikhupura and Kasur Regional Office, Bahawalpur Bahawalpur District Laboratory Sargodha Sargodha District Laboratory Sialkot Sialkot and Gujrat District Laboratory Gujranwala Gujranwala District Laboratory Faisalabad Faisalabad District Laboratory Multan Multan Sindh Drainage Research Center, Tandojam Hyderabad, Mirpur Khas, Tando Allahyar, Shaheed Benazirabad and Sukkur