is an attempt to improve our understanding of the issue and come up with solid Policy recommendations to tackle this problem of impure sanitation system and poor drinking water in the country. Objective “The study will address the water quality issues with respect to water borne disease (diarrhea) and the factors associated with it, at national sub nation level. Furthermore, policy intervention required to improve water quality situation in the country” Based on above objectives of study, the main hypotheses of the study are: 1. Variation in water and sanitation systems could affect the water borne disease among children under five. Prevalence of childhood morbidity due to waterborne disease is a function of some background characteristics including demographic, socioeconomic and environmental factors. Literature Review Preclusion of waterborne disease is a big worry in the world. Waterborne illness signify burden of diseases around the globe. About 4% of illnesses are associated with sanitation, water and hygiene; similarly approximately 2.2 million persons die every single year because of diarrheal illness in the world. Drinking water is a big reason of communicable and noncommunicable agents in developing countries. Waterborne medical situations represent substantial burden of illnesses worldwide. According to Rana (2009) the children who are under the age of five years are more susceptible to get infected from waterborne pathogens as compared to adults. In 2012 Imran et al. said diarrheal disease poses morbidity and mortality hazards to children. Another perspective is the economic perspective which emphasizes on consideration and clarification of relationship and household behavior among the suitable involvements and the resources. The methodological outlook highlights the requirement to deliver households with an abundant and satisfactory safe water supply and sanitation facilities. Diarrhoea occurrence low with safe water and households are alert in their individual hygiene, and boil water. In such case, interference like water quality improvement possibly will show unsuccessful in dropping diarrhoea rates because of the behavioral issues. Pakistan‟s water and sanitation challenges are increasing which illustrate the problems of rapid urbanization. Mainly in rural areas, availability of safe drinking water is also of main concern for women and children as they are also have the responsibility for fetching water from distances. In 2005, Roseman estimated death of about 0.25 million children per annum because of diarrhea & related diseases in Pakistan. Each year about ten thousand people die in just Karachi due to renal infection caused by unsafe water.