Citation: Hifza, R., Fauzia. A., Kiran, A., and M. Ashraf (2021). Drinking Water Quality in Pakistan: Current Status and Challenges. Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources (PCRWR), Islamabad, pp. 141. © All rights reserved by PCRWR. The authors encourage fair use of this material for noncommercial purposes with proper citation. ISBN: 978-969-8469-81-8 Title Page designed by Mr. Zeeshan Munawar Top: People waiting for drinking water supply Bottom Left: A child drinking water from Tap Bottom Right: Clean drinking water Disclaimer: The views expressed in this report are those of the authors and not necessarily those of the institution. Drinking Water Quality in Pakistan Current Status and Challenges Hifza Rasheed Fouzia Altaf Kiran Anwaar Muhammad Ashraf Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources Ministry of Science and Technology 2021 i Foreword Access to adequate and safe drinking water is a human right and its provision is the responsibility of state. This responsibility has been conferred through the constitution of Islamic Republic of Pakistan, Vision 2025, national and provincial drinking water policies and international commitments such as Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Monitoring of drinking water quality is a first step towards its management. Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources (PCRWR) started a nationwide water qualitymonitoring program in 2002 focusing on 24 major cities of the country. This has now become a regular program of the Council. This program measures the water quality throughout the country and releases its report after every five years. The outcome of this program helps raise awareness in the country. It acts as a guideline for the federal, provincial and local governments to take necessary steps towards improvement in water quality. Following this, the respective governments undertook a number of initiatives. However, most of the initiatives could not yield the desired results mainly due to: project approach focusing mostly on infrastructure development, installation of decentralized plants (mostly reverse osmosis), lack of ownership for O&M, lack of professional capacity to address the issue and most importantly lack of service delivery concept. This resulted into slow pace development. For example, from 2002 to 2020, only 19% improvement in safe drinking water supply has been observed (on an average 1% per year). If this situation continues, Pakistan would not be able to meet its national and international obligations. This is a great challenge and requires a paradigm shift in thinking and approaching the issue. The country needs to declare