are also found for different population strata at national and sub national level. Besides these association background factors of water and sanitation facilities, demographic and socioeconomic factors is measured through chi-square test of independent association. The association is tested at 1%, 5% and 10% level of significance for measuring the strength of association. Potential hypothesis built for this testing are provided in following table:Subnational level estimates of diarrhea are estimated through bivariate percentage distributions. Regression Analysis Multivariate Binary Logistic Regression Model (Anteneh, et al. 2017; Hosmer, et al. 2013) will highlight the impact of demographic, socioeconomic, background and environmental factors on prevalence of water-borne disease. This model assumes the response/dependent variable is a dummy variable in binary form. Mathematical form of the model is as under: ( ) ( ) Where; P disease = is the probability that children (under five) have incidence of morbidity due to water borne diseases. β0 = Intercept (i.e. chances of provenance of disease) β1, β2, …, βj ; are the effects of demographic, socioeconomic, background and environmental factors. X1, X2, …, Xj ; are demographic, socioeconomic, background and environmental factors with levels. To see the individual impact of set of environmental factors i.e. sources of drinking water and sanitation facility, a separate equation was executed (Equation – 1). After words, their impact is observed along with social characteristic of mother i.e. education (Equation – 2). Demographic Characteristics intervened after social factor to influence the prevalence of diarrhea (Equation – 3) and in final model background factors i.e. wealth status joined in the set of environmental, social and demographic characteristics to influence diarrhea (Equation – 4). It constitutes four sets of equations. Estimates of logistic regression are interpreted in their transformed form of odds ratio. Positive odds are greater than 1.00 interpreted as more chances or more odds of an event to occur as compared to reference category and negative goes toward 0.00 interpreted as less chances of event of interest as compared to reference category. Odd of 1.00 are interpreted as equal chances of occurrence of an event as that of reference category. Term reference category is adopted to have benchmark based on literature or natural trends and patterns. A significant odd presents the most influential factor contributing positively or negatively to prevalence of diarrhea. Result & Analysis Current situation of health outcomes Post-neonatal (greater than 28 days from birth) deaths have a prominent