of 29 cities has identified 11 major water quality problems in drinking water sources of Pakistan i.e. 41% microbiological, TDS (14%), Iron (14%), Hardness (10 %), Turbidity (9%), Chlorides (8%), Arsenic (5%), Nitrates (4%), Fluoride (4%), and pH (1%). Comparison of current status of safe water (39% in 2020) with 31% in 2015 reveals slow paced drinking water quality improvement in the country. Consuming 61% of the unsafe waters may pose serious public health risk due to waterborne diseases such as diarrhea, dysentery, typhoid, hepatitis, skeletal and dental fluorosis, methemoglobinemia, and cancer. The water quality monitoring over the time can help identify the challenges in sustainable access to safe drinking water. The monitoring outcomes of 29 cities make xiii us realize that all stakeholders such as Federal, Provincial and local Governments, local communities, industries, academia etc. need to play their roles in improving drinking water quality. In this context, establishing a comprehensive drinking water system that integrates water supply, quality and management is essential. This can be accomplished through substantial increase in investment on Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) sector, enhancement of institutional capacity, rehabilitation of existing water supply infrastructure, public-private partnership arrangements and introducing the concept of service delivery. Otherwise, it would be difficult to achieve the targets set in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) particularly Goal 6. xiv 1 Chapter 1: Introduction 1.1 Background Water is a strategic resource and access to affordable and safe drinking water is a fundamental human right of all citizens. Provision of safe drinking water is the responsibility of the State. Pakistan’s National Water Policy also envisions safe drinking water for all. However, the earlier studies conducted by Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources (PCRWR) reported that 31% of the population had access to safe drinking water in the country (Imran et al. 2016). PCRWR’s water quality monitoring reports were shared with the concerned local, provincial and federal authorities for undertaking remedial measures. Consequently, unsafe drinking water became a serious concern for the Water and Sanitation Agencies (WASAs), Public Health Engineering Departments (PHEDs), local governments, NGOs and the general public. Various corrective measures were undertaken by the provinces, which resulted in an improved access to safe water from comparison is from 2010 to 2015 15% in 2010 to 31% in 2015. However, this slow paced improvement despite increased annual spending of Rs. 91 billion financial comparison 2016-17 to 2019-20 (2016-17) to Rs.