water and food security issues under the influence of climate change. A three-day international conference, held from December 4th to 6th, 2023, was inaugurated by Prof. Dr. Iqrar Ahmad Khan, Vice Chancellor of the University of Agriculture Faisalabad. In his inaugural address, Prof. Dr. Khan emphasized the need for transformative pathways in water management, noting that traditional agricultural practices, while still prevalent in Pakistan, are outdated and inefficient. He stressed the urgent need for technological advancements and innovative methods to enhance water security. He highlighted importance of the developing a comprehensive and inclusive roadmap to address the imminent water crisis and the impacts of climate change, aiming for a Climate Resilient Pakistan. Dr. Mark Smith, Director General of IWMI, underscored the impact of climate change on water regimes globally, with Pakistan being particularly vulnerable. He acknowledged ongoing global efforts to combat rising temperatures, including discussions at the Conference of Parties (COP) in Dubai. Dr. Smith praised the collaborative efforts of PCRWR, IWMI, CGIAR (Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research), and provincial governments in advancing water and food security policies. He also announced CGIAR’s new initiative on Fragility, Conflict, and Migration (FCM) in Pakistan, aimed at bolstering the resilience of food, land, and water systems in fragile and conflict-affected regions. Ms. Claudia Ringler, Co-Lead of NEXUS Gains and Director of Natural Resources and Resilience, highlighted the alarming rise in global hunger, with the number of hungry people increasing from 564 million in 2014 to 735 million in 2022. In Pakistan alone, 43 million people are affected. She cited an estimated loss of USD 2.1 billion due to climate change in Pakistan and called for both First World nations and vulnerable countries like Pakistan to implement effective climate adaptation and mitigation strategies. Ms. Ringler Prof. Dr. Iqrar Ahmad Khan, Vice Chancellor (UAF) Dr. Mark Smith addresses the PWW 2023 International Conference 36 advocated for the NEXUS Gains Approach, which aims to improve water, energy, food, ecosystem, and health sectors collectively, potentially reducing rice acreage in Pakistan by 15 percent and saving two million acre-feet of water. Dr. Mohsin Hafeez, Director, IWMI, noted that Pakistan, with the sixth-largest population globally, ranks 77th in the food security index and is the eighth most climatevulnerable country. These factors significantly impact the nation's water and food security. Despite reports indicating that 90% of water is used for agriculture, Dr. Hafeez expressed concerns about the accuracy of