Mitta and provided a comprehensive overview of PCRWR’s initiatives in the fields of Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) and groundwater recharge. During the visit, Dr. Rasheed highlighted PCRWR's ongoing efforts to enhance groundwater recharge and promote traditional water conveyance systems, such as the Karez system. She elaborated on the innovative projects and initiatives undertaken by PCRWR, demonstrating various installations and technologies employed to address water management challenges. This visit was an important opportunity for PCRWR to showcase its work and explore potential areas for collaboration with UNICEF in advancing water management and sustainability initiatives in Pakistan. On January 30, 2024, Ms. Jennifer Solakian, Senior Technical Lead of Winrock International, a U.S.-based organization, along with Mr. Ali Toqueer Sheikh, visited the PCRWR headquarters in Islamabad. The visit aimed to explore the strengths and mandate of PCRWR, with a view toward potential future collaborations. Dr. Hifza Rasheed, DG, PCRWR, provided an informative presentation highlighting the council's research and development innovations and capacitybuilding initiatives. This was followed by a comprehensive discussion and Q&A session, where Winrock experts engaged with PCRWR professionals from the water quality, water management, and hydrology sections. On January 31, 2024, Dr. Pema Gyamtsho, Director General of ICIMOD, and his team visited PCRWR Headquarters, Islamabad. Dr. Hifza Rasheed, DG, PCRWR, presented organization's research, innovations, and capacity-building initiatives. Dr. Gyamtsho expressed strong appreciation and interest in collaboration. The team was also given a tour of PCRWR's water conservation and treatment models, showcasing technologies like Groundwater Recharge Systems and Rainwater Harvesting. Visit of UNICEF Water Expert to PCRWR, Islamabad Winrock International Experts Visited PCRWR Director General, ICIMOD Visited PCRWR 76 On May 7, 2024, PCRWR held a productive meeting with representatives from WaterAid, and Lasoona Relief & Development Organization. The meeting aimed to enhance collaboration on climate-resilient Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) initiatives, zero liquid discharge, and rainwater harvesting. During the discussion, PCRWR introduced its innovative technologies for drinking water treatment filters, particularly in flood-affected areas, as well as rainwater harvesting, groundwater recharge, and wetlands for wastewater treatment. This collaboration is expected to strengthen efforts toward sustainable water management and climate resilience in vulnerable communities. On May 10, 2024, a delegation from DePaul University, including Mr. John Zeigler, Director of Urban Education & Community Partnerships, and Ms. Hiba Zakai, Ph.D. Scholar, visited PCRWR, Islamabad. The visit aimed to explore opportunities for exchanging ideas on promoting innovative urban solutions through community engagement. Mr.