see health status of baby at the time of birth. Children with smaller body sizes are assumed to be less immune, and as body size increase it was considered that body‟s immunity against diseases linearly increases and child may fight better if they have better health status at the beginning of life. From analysis of data it was concluded that rates of diarrhea are lower for children who are born with bigger body size. Besides the demographics of child, the age of mother was considered in system of equation (model 3 and 4) with hypothesis that, as soon as age of mother increases, experience of caretaking for her child improves and child may less likely to suffer from morbidity. This demographic factor highlighted as highly influential for prevalence of diarrhea. As soon as age of mother increases the chance of childhood diarrhea decreases. Ethnicity of the children was taken as a cultural factor showing cultural differences in childhood diarrheal morbidity. Sindhi are highlighted with high chances of childhood diarrhea as compared to Urdu ethnic children. Wealth status was considered to depict the household prosperity with better possession of assets. Children from households with better wealth status are hypothesized to less likely to catch by diarrhea disease. Against the null hypothesis of increasing chances of diarrhea for poor children, we found that diarrhea is less likely for wealthy children. Regions were included with hypothesis that diarrhea is prevailing variably among regions. The study looks inside the correlates of diarrhea not only at National Level but also Provincial and District Level. We conclude our study as, provincially, Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa regions found with highest rates of diarrhea. In Sindh Tando Allahyar, Matiati, Hyderabad, Badin, Karachi East and Karachi South are found most vulnerable districts f Sindh where prevalence of diarrhoea found non-ignorable and it is surrounded by poor households, children with mothers married in early ages, children having small size at birth and ages less than 24 months and children belonging to uneducated mothers. Although Punjab comes with lower rates of diarrhoea morbidity but in some districts like Rajanpur, Rahimyar Khan, Lahore, Gujranwala and Rawalpindi where situation is not up to the standard due to poverty, early age marriages, small size of babies at birth etc. Policy Recommendations If we are committed to improve water and sanitation, we need a coherent policy framework and investment in the Water and Sanitation sector