child at birth) and background characteristics (ethnicity, household wealth status and region of residence of children). Table 2. Domains and Variables Domains Variables Reference Demographic Age of Child; Age of Mother; Gender of Child Anteneh et al 2017; Murtaza et al 2015; Imran et al (--); Arif and Naheed 2012; Mengistie et al 2013 Socio Economic Education of Parents; Economic Working status of mother; Wealth of Mother Ibid Background Area of Residence; Region of Residence; Ethnicity Ibid Environmental Water Supply; Sanitation Facility Ibid; Fayehun, 2010; MICS 2014 Main Report Each component of these groups of indicators is explained below:Toilet Facility: It depicts the condition of sanitation at household. Source of Drinking Water: It shows the different ways from which households are using water for drinking purpose. Current age of child (months): Immunity of child improves as age increases. Gender of Child: This variable is considered to show whether there is any difference in rates of diarrhea among male and female children. Size of Child at Birth and Birth Weight: Children who are naturally healthy are least likely to get diarrhea. Mother’s Age: As soon as age of mother increases the diarrhea decreases due to increasing experience of motherhood. Age difference B/W parents: This variable provides the communication gap among mother and father. More age difference of mothers from fathers is considered as more communication gap. No. of Household Members: Children from larger households may sometimes get neglected. Parents and elders give more time to children in small households. Parent’s Education attainment level: Educated parents are considered more beneficial for healthcare of their children. Mother’s Working Status: Working mothers are considered to give less time as compared to those who do not work. Non-working mothers are considered as good caretaker of children. Maternal Language: this indicator is taken to cater the traditional setups and cultural norms in society. Wealth Possession: It gives possession of household assets that give life comfort. Households with poor cooking fuel, non-pakka household structure and other household assets are more likely to get chances of diarrhea among children as compared to those having pakka house structure, better energy sources and other household assets. Place of Residence: Least develop area bring more disease rates as there are less nearby health facilities as compared to develop areas. Regions: This variable gives regional variation in disease rates. Table 3. Variable construction and Types Variable Levels (categories) Variable Types Diarrhea Prevalence