production function, we would need to be controlling for various other determinants of health stock, such as physical and socio-economic characteristics of age, gender, wage, and education level. Such a model captures the effect of behaviour on health while allowing for the joint determination of health and behaviour, and is therefore useful for analysing real-world situations. This is due to the fact that it treats health and behaviour as interlinked variables. For both equations the dependent variable will be modelled as a dichotomous observed variable, because of the nature of behaviour (e.g., households either treat or do not treat water) or lack of more accurate information (we have information regarding presence of diarrheal illness but not its duration). Suppose that individuals exhibit defensive behaviour if the value assumed by a random variable 𝑦1, is greater than zero. Let 𝑦1 be determined by individual/household Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water 927 characteristics (including the wage rate, non-labor income and the cost of defensive behaviour) and the risk factors, both represented by the vector of regressors 𝑥1: 𝑦1 = 𝛽1𝑥1 + 𝜖 Furthermore, suppose that diarrheal disease is present in a household when a second random variable 𝑦2 defined as: 𝑦2 = 𝛽2𝑥2 + 𝜂𝑦1 + 𝜉 takes on a value greater than zero. Here 𝑥2 is also a set of individual and household characteristics and sources of risk for diarrheal disease. The above two simultaneous equations contain two endogenous variables, 𝑦1 and 𝑦2, and hence can be estimated using instrumental variable regression techniques. Instead of converting the equations into the reduced-form and then estimating them, the procedure will use the household characteristics are instruments in the defensive behaviour function and then estimate the health production function. However, the endogeneity of the variables must also be assessed to assure the reliability of the results. The dependent variable for the health production function is diarrheal illness – it assumes a value of 1 if the household reports at least one case of diarrheal illness, otherwise 0. For the defensive behaviour equation, as the literature suggests [see Alberini (1996)] purification of water has been taken as the variable of interest– it takes a value of 1 when the household reports that it employs measures to purify water prior to drinking the same, otherwise it takes a value of 0. In the survey, sources that are likely to provide water approprite for drinking are