2020 (Figure 16). 30 Figure 16: Year wise Drinking Water Quality Status of Sialkot City 3.2.12 Risk Map of Punjab A risk map indicates the health impact of different contaminants in the study area. For the mapping, quality of groundwater is divided into four categories as marginally safe, low, medium and high-risk. Figure 17 shows that groundwater of Gujrat and Sialkot cities are marginally safe. The groundwater in Faisalabad, Kasur and some areas of Sargodha and Gujranwala cities are in low-risk category. However, the drinking water in Multan, Bahawalpur, Lahore, Sheikhpura, Sargodha and in certain areas of Gujranwala and Faisalabad are categorized as medium-risk region. Similarly, drinking water at certain areas of Sargodha, Bahawalpur, Faisalabad and Sheikhupura is placed at high-risk (Figure 17). Figure 17: GIS risk mapping of Punjab province 31 Immediate measures are required in the medium and high-risk regions. Detail of hotspot areas of Punjab province according to contaminants types are depicted in Annexure (30-33). 3.2.13 Overall Hydro-chemical Facies of Punjab Durov diagram (Figure 18) was generated to describe the hydro-chemical characteristics and type of groundwater. The pH part of the plot reveals that groundwater in Punjab is neutral to alkaline which is preferred for drinking. The Electrical Conductivity of most of groundwater samples lies in the range of drinking water standards except some samples from Sargodha city that have higher EC (31022140 µS/cm) due to brackish water. The hydro-chemical facies shown as Durov Diagram indicates the water rock interaction in terms of Sodium-Bicarbonate (45% of the total samples), Calcium-Bicarbonate (17%), Magnesium-Bicarbonate (14%), Sodium Carbonate (7%) and Sodium Sulphate (5%). The dominant Sodium-Bicarbonate type water designates weathering of silicate rocks or ion exchange during water infiltration through the subsurface soil. Moreover, Calcium-Magnesium-Bicarbonate type not only suggests fresh recharge to the groundwater but also specifies the dissolution of calcite or dolomite minerals (Mondal et al., 2012). Overall, main type of hardness in the groundwater of Punjab province is of temporary nature. Figure 18: Durov Diagram depicting geo-chemical processes in groundwater of Punjab 32 3.3 Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province Chemical and microbial aspects of water samples were collected from four cities of KPK, i.e. Abbottabad, Mardan, Peshawar and Mangora. 3.3.1 Abbottabad Water quality samples were collected for the monitoring purpose from 11 different sources of Abbottabad. In 2015, four sampling locations were non-functional. To manage this situation, alternative four sites were chosen for samples collection in 2020. Microbiologically all samples