Prevention & Control of Hepatitis, and donor-funded Safe Drinking Water and Hygiene Promotion Project, etc. The Clean Drinking Water for All Program was initiated in 2005 that focused on the construction of 445 water purification plants of 2,000 gallons per hour in all Pakistani tehsils. However, the Program was halted due to its inadequate planning. In 2007, Quality Drinking Water Standards were published for Pakistan by the Health Services Academy under the Ministry of Health. Later, in 2009, a National Drinking Water Policy was approved, which aimed at providing safe drinking water to population by 2025. However, the policy could not be implemented in its true spirit and the challenge of making safe drinking water available to everyone remains unaddressed. Recently, the government has approved the first ever National Water Policy (NWP) 2018. Federal and provincial policies need to be reviewed to avoid gaps of overlap in competencies. If any change is to be made in our water governance, the provinces must likewise regulate almost all areas, such as: irrigation, agriculture, rural and urban water supply, environment and other water related sub-sectors22. National Water Policy 2018 states “and roles of the federal and provincial water related agencies need to be reviewed in view of the 18th Amendment to the Constitution” (NWP, 2018:4). It is mainly not the federal but the provincial governments, which are considered responsible and thereby accountable for almost all aspects of the policy implementation. 21UNESCO & University of Twente, 2013 22Sub-sectors are not specified in the National Water Policy 18, but have occasionally been referred to as: 1. Economic sectors: Agriculture, forestry, livestock, fisheries; Mining, energy, industries, transport; Human settlements and recreation: 2. Environmental impact sectors: Soil degradation, loss of biodiversity, and over harvesting of renewable resources; Municipal and industrial discharges, environmental health effects, and misuse of water resources; Destruction of cultural heritage. Policy Brief Addressing The Drinking Water Challenge in Pakistan CRCP Publications Page | 7 The recent statistics about quality and access have revealed that none of the provinces have delivered the performance level needed to be able to secure a sustainable development and management of water resource. The PCRWR test results support this assertion. Generally, for all provinces of Pakistan, the delivery is spread across a range of institutions with varying capacities, differing reporting lines and limited coordination. This includes Public Health Engineering Department (PHED), Local Government and Community Development Department (LG&CD) and Water