for organizing the event and emphasized the critical need for increased public awareness and engagement in disaster preparedness. The seminar highlighted the necessity of integrating scientific research with practical policy measures and community-based strategies to build resilience and improve response mechanisms. Group photo of the workshop 49 2nd KOICA Performance Sharing Workshop Enhancing Water Quality Monitoring to Achieve SDG-6 in Pakistan PCRWR, in collaboration with the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) and the Ministry of Climate Change, hosted the 2nd Performance Sharing Workshop under the project "Enhancing Water Quality Monitoring to Achieve SDG-6 in Pakistan" on September 20, 2023, in Islamabad. This workshop was a key event aimed at evaluating and sharing progress on the project’s objectives and accomplishments. The workshop was attended by notable figures including, Mr. Je Ho Yeon, Country Director of KOICA; Mr. Jawad Rabbani, Deputy Director, Ministry of Planning Development and Special Initiatives (MoPD&SI); Dr. Hifza Rasheed, Director General, PCRWR; and Sardar Khan Zimree, Director General, Water Management at the Capital Development Authority (CDA). Dr. Hifza Rasheed, emphasized PCRWR's key role in advancing water quality monitoring and the impact of local training programs on improving water management practices to achieve SDG 6. Mr. Je Ho Yeon, KOICA's Country Director, praised PCRWR's efforts in water quality monitoring and highlighted the importance of ongoing collaboration. The workshop provided a platform for performance evaluation, knowledge exchange, and strengthened commitment to enhancing water quality monitoring and achieving SDG 6 in Pakistan. Group photo of workshop participants 50 Research Colloquium on World Water Day 2024 PCRWR hosted a Research Colloquium at its Regional Office in Lahore on March 28, 2024 in observance of World Water Day 2024. The event brought together a diverse group of participants from various research-oriented institutions, including the University of Engineering and Technology (UET) Center of Excellence in Water Resource Engineering (CEWRE), the Irrigation Research Institute (IRI), the University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (UVAS), and the University of Agriculture Faisalabad (UAF), among others. The colloquium featured presentations from Engr. Faakhar Raza, Regional Director, PCRWR, who provided an overview of PCRWR’s research activities and ongoing projects. This included a discussion on key initiatives aimed at advancing water research and management in Pakistan. Attendees also shared the results and insights from their individual research efforts, contributing to a comprehensive discussion on current trends, challenges, and opportunities in the field of water resource management. The event facilitated an exchange