also suggest that since some heavy metal exceed the permissible limits like lead (Pb) in water samples, it is advisable to consume the water after the treatment. Further Investigation of deterioration of drinking water quality in different urban areas of Pakistan was also done. Farid, Baloch and Ahmed (2012) evaluated the contamination of drinking water in Faisalabad due to rapid boom in urbanisation and industrialisation in past decade. Since the discharge of untreated and excess toxic solid waste from industries into water channels has led to disastrous consequences on health Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water 921 due to deterioration of drinking water quality as hazardous toxic and metal concentration has increased in ground water. Like Ashraf, Maah, Yusoff, and Mehmood (2010), the author used the same technique to evaluate water samples that were collected from hand pumps located within a circle of 10 meters of the sewage source. Parameters evaluated included pH, Total Dissolved Solids, hardness, few anions and cations by using the technique prescribed by American society for testing and materials. Moreover, the presence of some heavy metal ions was analysed using series atomic absorption spectrophotometer. Result validates the hypothesis claim that high contamination of these samples made the water from hand pumps unfit for human consumption. The author also proposed that to curtail the high level of contamination, it is essential to treat industrial waste before dumping it into water bodies and also to install water pumps at least 20 meters away from sewage channels. Further evaluation was done in the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa by Khan, Shahnaz, Jehan, Rehman, Shah, and Din (2013) analysing the drinking water quality and its associated risk on human health in Charasadda district. For this purpose samples of water from tube-wells, hand pumps and dug-wells were collected and investigated for physical characteristics, coliform bacteria, heavy metals and anions similar to the analysis done by Haydar, Arshad, and Aziz (2009) and Ashraf, Maah, Yusoff, and Mehmood (2010). Analysis revealed that concentration of Nitrates and sulfates were exceeding the prescribed limit as set by PEPA and WHO. High concentration of some heavy metals like lead (Pb) and Iron (Fe) were also exceeding the prescribed limit. Moreover, the presence of coliform bacterial contamination was also confirmed. Author extended its investigation by exploring the causes behind water contamination in this district and it was found that improper sewage disposal, over usage of pesticide and