Rs. 25-58 billion annually accounting for approximately 0.6-1.44% of Gross Domestic Production (GDP) of Pakistan9. Water and hygiene related diseases are costing Pakistan’s economy annual national income losses of US$380 to US$883 million of the GDP while 250,000 children less than five years of age die every year in the country due to diarrheal diseases10. More than 50-60 million11 people in Pakistan are at risk of arsenic poisoning from contaminated groundwater12. This number is alarmingly high and demonstrates the urgent need for verification and testing of all drinking water wells in the Indus Plain, followed by appropriate mitigation measures. The situation calls for urgent and concrete technical and political governance solutions to safeguard safe drinking water for people of Pakistan. This policy note is seeking to alert policy makers, address vital issues and suggest possible solutions. Consumer Rights Commission of Pakistan (CRCP) furthermore suggests participatory consultations with consumers, politicians, newly elected parliamentarians, bureaucrats at all levels and other stakeholders to open up smart, efficient and relevant solutions. 8United Nations. Impact Assessment Report: Handpumps/ Waterwells. Available at: https://humanappeal.org.pk/Reports/clean%20water%20report.pdf. 9Daniya, K. (2017). Pakistan’s National Water Policy. The Express Tribune. [online] Available at: https://tribune.com.pk/story/1469030/pakistans-national-water-policy/. 10 Economic Survey of Pakistan 2015-16 11 Joel, 2017 12 This study is based on samples from 1,200 wells across the country, with hot spots around Lahore and Hyderabad. Policy Brief Addressing The Drinking Water Challenge in Pakistan CRCP Publications Page | 3 Legal Framework, Current Situation and Cause A. Legal Responsibility and International Commitments The constitution of Pakistan states that “no person shall be deprived of life or liberty save in accordance with law” (Article 9). Water is a basic need for living, which implies that it is the responsibility of the state to provide clean drinking water. Legal frameworks for protection of consumers are available but right to safe drinking water still needs to be recognized in clear terms in the constitution of Pakistan. In Water Act of Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) (DWP -FATA, 2014), water was mentioned as a fundamental human right; however, since FATA has been merged in to the province of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa the act has become secondary. Pakistan’s commitment to the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is a positive signal for consumer’s protection. The country has also established SDG’s Office at Ministry of Planning Commission and has internalized the SDG’s as National Goals. Especially, goal 6 is about ensuring availability and sustainable