(Rasheed et al., 2021). The rationalized water prices for volumetric use of water by different social categories will result in revenue generation which can ultimately be used to improve water supply and treatment infrastructure. However, complete rehabilitation of main and distribution pipe network is very important for uninterrupted and good quality water supply. 4.6 Cost of Not Providing Safe Water An inadequate water supply whether as a result of poor access or quality, low reliability, high cost, or difficulty of management is associated with significant health risks. The bacteriological and chemical contaminations identified in this study may result in certain waterborne health implications such as diarrhea, cholera, dysentery, typhoid, and polio. The JMP Report (UNICEF and WHO, 2018) reported that 27,000 children die each year from diarrhea related diseases in Pakistan. Thus, unsafe drinking water quality imposes 71 both direct and indirect costs that are experienced through multiple pathways reflected in Figure 51. Pakistan’s Economic Survey (2011) reported that WASH related diseases cost Pakistan’s economy about PKR 112 billion per year, over PKR 300 million a day in terms of health cost and lost earnings. Out of this, the cost associated with stomachrelated diseases alone has been estimated at around PKR 55-80 billion per year. These costs include those borne by the government and households and the wider economy like healthcare. As mentioned earlier, a major national financing gap exist between current annual WASH spending of PKR 80 billion and requirement of PKR 450 billion annually to meet SDG targets by 2030. Figure 51: Financial implications of unsafe water quality 4.7 Implementation of Policies and Regulatory Framework The National Water Policy (NWP) approved in 2018 outlines a framework for interventions by the Federal and Provincial governments to address various issues aggravating declining supply and deteriorating quality of water. The Section 12 of NWP also shows the commitment to National Drinking Water and Sanitation Polices and Sustainable Development Goals (NWP Clause 12.8). However, the current state of safe water access highlights the need to analyze the policy implementation framework to identify gaps and weaknesses responsible for slow paced safe water access of 31% in 2015 and 39% in 2020. The NWP is a national framework within which the provinces are trying to develop their own policies, regulations and master plans for sustainable management of water resources. PCRWR on the direction of the Federal government is Financial Implications Water quality treatment Bottled