environmental issue. Meeting with Sindh Environmental Protection Agency Visit by RDF Officials and Farmers to PCRWR PTV and PCRWR Teams Visited Manchar Lake 80 80 81 Collaborations 81 82 82 83 On March 29, 2024, Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources (PCRWR) and the Research, Innovation & Commercialization (RIC) department of the National University of Sciences and Technology (NUST), Islamabad, formalized their collaboration through a Program of Cooperation (PoC). The agreement aims to bolster research and innovation in the water sector. The PoC outlines a commitment to collaborative projects and initiatives focused on highquality research and innovation in water management, water quality, and water security. Under this partnership, NUST will offer technical support, including research data and analysis, while both institutions will work together on joint proposals and publications. The agreement was signed by the Pro-Rector of NUST and the Director General, PCRWR. Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources (PCRWR), Peshawar, has signed several key agreements to enhance water resource management and safe drinking water provision. On May 27, 2024, PCRWR signed an agreement with the Peshawar Development Authority (PDA) to facilitate the exchange of knowledge, information, research, and literature for ensuring safe drinking water at the community and household levels. On November 3, 2023, PCRWR entered into an agreement with Secure Islamic France (SIF) Peshawar, focusing on the provision of safe drinking water, irrigation solutions, rainwater harvesting techniques, and groundwater resource assessment. Additionally, on August 23, 2024, PCRWR signed an agreement with the International Rescue Committee (IRC) Peshawar to implement interventions aimed at climate-resilient WASH initiatives. This includes planning and conducting feasibility studies to assess the water table, piloting groundwater recharge, and rainwater harvesting. Program of Cooperation (PoC) Between PCRWR and NUST Signing of Agreements with PDA Peshawar, Secure Islamic France (SIF), and International Rescue Committee (IRC) 84 Engr. Hafiz Abdul Salam, Regional Director, DRIP-PCRWR, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the US-Pakistan Center for Advanced Studies in Water at Mehran University of Engineering and Technology, Jamshoro, Sindh, Pakistan. This agreement is part of the project titled “Transformation through Adoption of Trees and Shrubs for Salinity Management in the Southern Indus Basin, Pakistan (WAC/2021/136).” The MoU outlines the provision of research services aimed at addressing salinity issues in the region through innovative solutions involving trees and shrubs. MoU Signed with US-Pakistan Center for Advanced Studies in Water 85 Services 88 85 86 86 87 National Water