6. h. Strengthening the technical capacity of local, provincial and national water supply authorities is essential for managing and regulating water supply systems across the country. 77 i. Water supply agencies should switch to the application of smart technologies that can improve management and service delivery. This may include smart water meters, online monitoring of water supplies, web based and mobile applications etc. j. Water supply agencies need to track and resolve the possible causes of microbial contamination i.e. leakage in water supply pipes, unhygienic physical situation at source, inadequate chlorination etc. In this case, leakage repair as well as use of water purification and disinfection methods (e.g. chlorinators) either at source-tosupply network or at point of use should be regulated. k. Compliance to the permissible limits set in the National Drinking Water Quality Standards of Pakistan must be ensured by the Federal, Provincial and Local water supply agencies at all levels from source to consumer end. l. The concept of service delivery and Public-Private Partnerships needs to be introduced. Such models exists in the country. However, it needs a paradigm shift in thinking and strong personal, institutional and political comitments. 78 79 References Ahsan, M., Hifza, R., Ashraf, M., and Kiran, A., (2020). Assessment of Water Quality Status in Gilgit-Baltistan. Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources (PCRWR), pp. 43. APHA, (2017). Standard Method for Examination of Water and wastewater. 23rd Edition, American Public Health Association and Water Pollution Control Federation, New York, Washington DC. Ashraf, M., and Sheikh, A.A., (2017). Sustainable Groundwater Management in Balochistan. Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources, pp. 34. Dongmei, H., Xianfang, S., and Matthew, J. C (2016). Identification of anthropogenic and natural inputs of sulfate into a karstic coastal groundwater system in northeast China. Hydrology and Earth System Sciences, Vol. 20, pp.1983–1999. Durov, S. A. (1948). Natural waters and graphic representation of their composition. In Dokl Akad Nauk SSSR,Vol. 59, No. 3, pp. 87-90. Grayman, W.M., Day, H.J. and Luken, R. (2003). Regional water quality management for the Dong Nai river basin, Vietnam. Water Science and Technology, 48(10), pp.17-23. World Health Organization, (2014). Global status report on noncommunicable diseases 2014 (No. WHO/NMH/NVI/15.1). World Health Organization. Hutton, G., and Varughese, M. (2016). The costs of meeting the 2030 sustainable development goal targets on drinking water, sanitation, and hygiene. The World Bank. Imran, S., Anwaar, K., Bukhari, L. N., and Ashraf, M. (2016). Water