amendment in the constitution, provision of safe drinking water falls within the domain of the provincial governments. Thus, the responsibility sets on the district government organizations such as Tehsil Municipal Authority (TMA), Water and Sanitation Agency (WASA), Public Health Engineering Department (PHED) etc. Provincial and Local governments have struggled to provide safe and reliable drinking water through traditional, typically centralized and decentralized solutions. The ideal solution is safe and affordable drinking water piped into people’s homes. However, setting aside the huge water supply infrastructure in the country, past investments were mainly made on the decentralized solutions in the form of constructing new water supply schemes, unregulated private tankers and water filtration plants without strengthening the human capacity for sustainable operation and maintenance of already existing 69 infrastructure. Consequently, much of Pakistan’s water supply infrastructure is found in poor condition, due to a practice of “build-neglect-rebuild”. Following this, the required investment in piped distribution systems and its maintenance seems to be the dominant cost of achieving SDG 6.1. However, the revenues recovered from the consumers of improved water supplies are mostly insufficient to meet the operation and maintenance costs of water supply network. If this practice continues, there is a real risk that existing issues of sustainability and ownership as well as appropriate technical considerations within the setup of water supply will become critical. The lack of consumer’s confidence on water supply along with unsafe water quality proved very favorable and advantageous for the growth of improperly regulated bottle water industry in Pakistan. On the other hand, regular monitoring of bottle water brands by PCRWR since 2005 also reveals the unsafe quality of many brands. 4.4 Low and Inefficient Financial Investment Safe and affordable drinking water for all by 2030 requires effective investment in water supply infrastructure. The World Bank has estimated that achieving a higher level of “safely managed” water services would require additional financing in the order of three times the current spending (Hutton and Varughese, 2016). The budgetary allocations for Water, Sanitation and Hygiene in 2019-2020 (including federal and provincial budgets) were PKR 157.258 billion and overall PKR 739 per capita. However, the per capita was highest in Balochistan with PKR 1,872 and the lowest in Punjab with PKR 371 capita (UNICEF, 2020). Figure 50: 2019-20 per capita WASH allocation (Data source: UNICEF, 2020) 70 The WHO (2014) reported that for every US$ invested in Water and Sanitation,