is no dearth of evidence regarding contamination of water bodies all over Pakistan, as evident from Table 1 (for evidence from before 2010, Azizullah, et al. (2010) provides an extensive meta-analysis). However, there has not been much work in the context of health effects due to contamination of these water resources. While most of the studies do report correlation between the degradation of water quality samples and the prevalence of water-borne diseases in the target area, correlation does not always imply causation. To contribute towards this gap in the literature, this study uses a revealed preference approach grounded in economic theory to substantiate the relationship between the rampant water pollution in the country and its effect on the health of the most sensitive fraction of the population: children. The study also takes into account the defensive behaviour of the household to assess if it leads to a reduction in the incidence of the illness. As discussed in later sections, the results of this study find significant application in many areas. Table 1 Post-2009 Literature Regarding Drinking Water-Quality in Pakistan Authors Year Target Area Results Hayder, Arshad and Aziz 2009 Southern Lahore 62.5 percent connections had T.C; 50 percent had F.C; possibly due to mixing of sewage. Memon, Soomro, Akhtar and Memon 2010 Thatta, Badin and Thar; Sindh Coliform and soluble salts in all water bodies; diarrhea in 60 percent sample population. Ashraf, Maah, Yusoff and Mehmood 2010 Jamber, Punjab Parameters exceed NEQS guidelines for both irrigation and drinking purposes. Muhammad, Shah and Khan 2011 Kohistan; KPK Cd, Ni, Pb, Zn concentrations higher than prescribed limits. Qadir and Malik 2011 River Chenab Higher concentrations of heavy metals in fish rendering it unfit for human diet. Farid, Baloch and Ahmed 2012 Faisalabad Ground water unfit for human consumption particularly near sewage channels. Khan, Shehnaz, Jehan, Rehman, Shah and Din 2012 Charsadda, KPK Drinking water contaminated with heavy metals and coliform; 47-59 percent people reported diarrhea (most common illness). Kazi 2014 Karachi and Hyderabad Heavy metals, arsenic and ecoliforms found in all samples. 3. DATA The data source primarily used for this study is the 2012-13 Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS). The National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS) undertook the responsibility of implementing the 2012-13 PDHS project, and the project Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water 925 was executed by the Pakistan Planning and Development Division (Islamabad). The Pakistan Bureau of