safely managed drinking water supply in the province to achieve the SDGs targets of universal access. However, the situation of unsafe water supplies in the province as indicated in this study (85%) shows weaker enforcement of the ambitious commitment stated in the policy. Moreover, a draft water policy of Sindh is also underway to provide policy directions for conjunctive management of surface water and groundwater. A stronger enforcement of both drinking water policy and water policy (once approved) in the province may improve the safe water coverage. 4.7.5 Gilgit-Baltistan Drinking Water Policy (2019) The draft Gilgit-Baltistan drinking water policy aims to provide an inclusive policy framework and principles to the GB government, local government and all stakeholders to address the key-issues and challenges in provision of safely managed drinking water to its citizens. The Objective 6 of the draft policy ensures that all future drinking water supplies are constructed and the existing drinking water supply systems are rehabilitated in line with the targets and indicators of Sustainable Development Goal 6. The current state of unsatisfactory improvement of water quality as revealed in this study demands taking appropriate and immediate actions in order to achieve the policy objectives. 74 Although some progress has been made in Punjab and KPK however, concrete actions are required in all all the provinces. The current situation of 59% unsafe water supplies in the Balochistan province also demands the Provincial government for institutional strengthening, restructuring and capacity building of the water supply stakeholders as a part of the thrust areas of Balochistan Integrated Water Resources Management Policy approved by the Cabinet in March, 2006. The results of this country-wide monitoring also confirmed that the interaction between policy and water supply sub-sectors would play an important role for the successful implementation of the policy actions. In this process, provinces also need strong institutions, effective legal frameworks and sufficient human and financial resources. Furthermore, encouraging the provinces to reform their water supply systems to bring these into sustainable state would be in compliance to the NWP and provincial water policies. 75 Chapter 5: Conclusion and Recommendations 5.1 Conclusions a. Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources (PCRWR) in compliance to the Clause 21.4 (Section 21) of the National Water Policy 2018 has monitored the water quality across the country through its well-established monitoring network. The study outcomes are straight aligned with study objectives to identify problem areas and