metals like lead (Pb) and Iron (Fe) were also exceeding the prescribed limit. Moreover, the presence of coliform bacterial contamination was also confirmed. Author extended its investigation by exploring the causes behind water contamination in this district and it was found that improper sewage disposal, over usage of pesticide and fertilisers and poor piping network is responsible for this prevailing situation in this district. To examine the impact on health due to bacterial contamination, the author used questionnaire survey which revealed similar results as of Haydar, Arshad, and Aziz (2009). Bacterial contamination was found to be majorly responsible for diarrhea and other related waterborne diseases. To make the evaluation more constructive, the author also recommended some measures like awareness among women and children and proper treatment of sewage disposal in order to rectify this prevailing issue in that district. Qadir and Malik (2011) provided evidence that impact on aquatic life due to water pollution can harm public health. Similarly, Waseem, Arshad, Iqbal, Sajjad, Mehmood, and Murtaza (2014) investigated the impact of contamination of water, vegetables and soil impact on public health in Pakistan. Samples of water and vegetables were collected and then they were analysed. Results revealed that metal contamination in vegetables, soil and water have severely impacted drinking water quality, food chain and ecological environment which in turn exposes a great threat to human health. To evaluate the health impact author has used different studies in various parts of Pakistan in order to validate the aforementioned claim. Similarly, Qureshi (2014) did an overall assessment of water quality in Pakistan like Azizullah, Khattak, Richter, and Häder (2011). He analysed physiochemical parameters, bacteriological parameters, concentration of heavy metals, sodium absorption ratio, total dissolved solids and few other parameters from various water samples and samples of toxic waste from various industries that are eventually dumped into water 922 Allawala, Barry, and Kayani channels. The evaluation revealed the presence of microbial contamination is present in water in many areas. It further revealed that water quality is deteriorating due to lack of proper attention. High concentration of heavy metals was observed due to the disposal of untreated sewage waste into water bodies. The author also suggests that all major cities should have sewage treatment plants and also laid emphasis on the formulation of national standards for drinking water quality that can help to tackle the prevailing poor water quality condition in Pakistan. After a