Water Act across the province. Punjab is also developing a provincial Groundwater Management Plan which is also expected to be instrumental in controlling the groundwater contamination. Sustainable Development Goals 2015–2030 Goal 6: Ensure the availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. Target 6.1: By 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking-water for all. Priority indicator: Percentage of population using safely managed drinking-water services. 73 4.7.3 Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Drinking Water Policy (2015) and Water Act (2020) The overall goal of the KPK's Drinking Water Policy is to streamline the sector and ensure that the entire population of KPK has access to adequate quantity of potable water at affordable cost through equitable, efficient and sustainable services by 2025. Political commitment of the province to SDG 6 is also reflected in the policy as Objective No. 1 (Section 5.3). One of the important features of the policy is the allocation of at least 10% of the provincial ADP (Annual Development Plan) for the achievement of its goal and objectives. Likewise, Chapter 5 of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Water Act (2020) is focused on water supply and includes responsibilities, liabilities and penalties of water supply service providers, citizens and all of the relevant stakeholders (Clauses 19 to 27). Both of the policy instruments provide clear directions for complete surveillance of drinking water quality in the province and hence to ensure improved access to the safe water supply. Though KPK has made visible and high ranked improvement in the quality of its water supplies after 2010, however the current status of 43% of the unsafe water supplies in four monitored cities indicates the need to further transform the policy directives into actions. 4.7.4 Sindh Drinking Water Policy (2017) Sindh Drinking Water Policy was approved on 3rd May, 2017. The goal of the policy is to improve the quality of life of the people in Sindh by reducing morbidity and mortality caused by water-borne diseases through provision of safely managed and potable drinking water to the entire population. The objective 4 of this policy aims to enhance the coverage of safely managed drinking water supply in the province to achieve the SDGs targets of universal access. However, the situation of unsafe water supplies in the province as indicated in this study (85%) shows weaker enforcement of the ambitious commitment stated in the policy. Moreover, a draft water policy of Sindh