the act has become secondary. Pakistan’s commitment to the global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) is a positive signal for consumer’s protection. The country has also established SDG’s Office at Ministry of Planning Commission and has internalized the SDG’s as National Goals. Especially, goal 6 is about ensuring availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all by 2030. Under the goal, there are several targets such as 6.1, which states: by 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water. In 1992, Pakistan signed The Dublin Statement on water and sustainable development, in which they agreed to four principles; 1) freshwater is a vulnerable resource; 2) water development and management should be based on a participatory approach to include all users; 3) in particular women; and 4) water should be recognized as an economic good, subject to the provision that basic rights of all human beings to have access to clean water and sanitation at an affordable price is recognized13. These principles leave room for fundamental debates in any nation state on how to govern. It opens up for further questions to be decided upon such as: a) who is responsible for regulation of the vulnerable resource of portable water, and how can those institutions be strengthened?; b) how can participatory approaches improve the management of drinking water and how?; and c) How to price vulnerable scarce water in a country with 30 percent people living below the poverty line? 13 The Dublin Statement, 1992 Policy Brief Addressing The Drinking Water Challenge in Pakistan CRCP Publications Page | 4 B. Situation on Ground: Water Quality, Access and Price There are public schemes which mainly include tap water, tube-wells, public filtration plants etc. Public schemes do not cover the entire country; even the quality of water supplied is not satisfactory. A national assessment survey of the water supply schemes indicates that out of 12,000 reported and 10,161 surveyed schemes, only 7,310 are functional. According to the Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources (PCRWR) annual report, 2013-14, out of 2,859 collected samples, approximately 70 percent the samples of water in Sindh and Punjab are unsafe14. Also, the provinces are affected by groundwater contamination. A survey conducted by PCRWR tracked contamination in majority of groundwater in Quetta, where 81 percent of water samples got bacteria and 6 percent of water samples had turbidity, which makes it unfit for