is mandated to conduct, organize, coordinate and promote research on all aspects of water resources including irrigation (surface and groundwater), drainage, soil reclamation, drinking water, rainwater harvesting, etc. With its headquarters at Islamabad, it has eight Regional Offices located at Lahore, Karachi, Quetta, Bahawalpur, Peshawar, Tandojam, Gilgit and Muzaffarabad besides having 24 water quality testing laboratories and seven research and demonstration farms across the country. The Council was established in 1964, under a resolution and named as Irrigation, Drainage and Flood Control Research Council (IDFCRC) under the Ministry of Natural Resources. Later it was renamed as Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources in 1985 under the administrative control of Ministry of Science and Technology. In 2007, it was given the status of a corporate body through an Act of Parliament. In March, 2022, PCRWR was brought under the administrative control of Ministry of Water Resources through the decision of the Federal Cabinet. Ever since its inception, the organization has determined its research and development activities according to the mandate provided to it. Its research and development activities are either financed by Federal Government or by international donors as well as research agencies. The patronage from Government of Pakistan and knowledge support from international partners has resulted into the emergence of PCRWR as the most vibrant organization on water-related issues. The Council is governed by a Board of Governors while Chairman, PCRWR is the Chief Executive. The Chairman is supported by the Secretary, Director Generals, Directors and other professionals. The total strength of the Council consists over 500 employees including; specialized staff (engineers, scientists, technicians, sub-engineers), administrative and management staff (administration, finance, coordination). 4 Functions of PCRWR PCRWR is committed to advancing water resource management through comprehensive research, policy development, and monitoring. By promoting innovative technologies and providing training, PCRWR empowers stakeholders while ensuring accessible data and fostering partnerships to enhance water conservation and quality across the country. Some of the core functions of PCRWR are; . PCRWR Functions Research Conduct, organize, coordinate and promote research on all aspects of water resources Irrigation, drainage, reclamation, drinking water and industrial effluent Monitoring National water quality monitoring programme (urban & rural) Technologies Water conservation and treatment technologies for irrigation, drinking and industrial effluent National Database National water resources information center Capacity Building, Contractual & Consultancy Services Public & private organizations Policy Recommendations Water quality, conservation, utilization, management and technology development Mass Awareness