This initiative, led by the United Nations University Institute for Water, Environment and Health (UNUINWEH), focuses on accelerating the achievement of water-related Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). As a regional hub and focal organization for this project, PCRWR has been involved since its initial phase in 2017. The final workshop, held in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, was jointly organized by UNOSD, UNU-INWEH, the Ministry of Environment of the Republic of Korea, the Korea Environment Corporation (K-eco), UNESCO International Centre for Water Security and Sustainable Management (UNESCO i-WSSM), the Korea Water Resources Corporation (Kwater), and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). During the workshop, PCRWR’s research team presented key achievements and lessons learned from their involvement in the project. Two knowledge products developed by PCRWR were also launched during this forum. The event brought together participants from Brazil, the Republic of Korea, Cambodia, and Tunisia to share insights and advancements related to water management and SDG implementation. 57 Vehicles Handover Ceremony A delegation from the PCRWR, led by Dr. Hifza Rasheed, Director General (Water Quality), attended the Vehicles Handover Ceremony for the project "Capacity Building on Water Quality Monitoring and SDG 6 (6.1) Reporting (KOICA/MoCC)" at the Office of the Chief Minister KPK in Peshawar on January 25, 2024,. The ceremony marked the handover of eight mobile water testing laboratories to the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and a field monitoring van worth Rs. 11 million to PCRWR. The event was attended by senior officials from the Government of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, as well as Country Directors of KOICA and UNOPS. The Chief Minister of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa officially handed over the keys to the field monitoring van to the representatives of PCRWR and the Public Health Engineering Department (PHED) of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, signifying a collaborative effort to enhance water quality monitoring and reporting in the region Participation in IHP Regional Steering Committee Dr. Hifza Rasheed, Director General PCRWR, participated in the 29th IHP Regional Steering Committee (RSC) Meeting for Asia and the Pacific alongside the 9th International Conference on Flood Management (ICFM9) at the Epochal Tsukuba International Congress Center in Tsukuba, Japan, from February 19-22, 2023. In her detailed presentation, Dr. Rasheed addressed the recent flood challenges in Pakistan, emphasizing the country's vulnerability to climate change, the impacts of the 2022 floods, and the legal frameworks for improved water governance. She outlined flood control and management efforts in Pakistan, including ongoing projects and strategies for