739 per capita. However, the per capita was highest in Balochistan with PKR 1,872 and the lowest in Punjab with PKR 371 capita (UNICEF, 2020). Figure 50: 2019-20 per capita WASH allocation (Data source: UNICEF, 2020) 70 The WHO (2014) reported that for every US$ invested in Water and Sanitation, there is a return of US$ 4.3 in the form of reduced health care costs for individuals and economics returns for the country (WHO, 2014). Based on SDG costing tool, it is estimated that Pakistan needs PKR 450 billion annually to meet SDG targets by 2030 (Pakistan Economic Survey, 2019). However, without effective planning and consideration of sustainability and service delivery concept within the existing model of water supply services, increased investment on water sector may result in failures like Clean Drinking water for All (CDWA) and Punjab Saaf Paani Company Project (PSPC). 4.5 Management of Water Supply Technologies Main cause of surface or groundwater pollution is the addition of untreated municipal sewage and industrial wastewater at different points of the water distribution network. Drinking water supply lines and sewage lines run in parallel, which causes leakages and intermixing result in deterioration of water quality. This has increased the costs of providing access to safe water using expensive water treatment. The past experience with CDWA and PSPC shows that inappropriate technology selection like reverse osmosis, ultrafiltration units etc. may result in wastage of capital cost without achieving the objective of improved access to safe drinking water. These technologies are only manageable if the right skills, resources, support structure and incentives exist. The planning should prefer to invest on improving safe tap water at point of use rather than improperly managed decentralized solutions. Water supply models on the basis of public-private partnership in different residential and commercial sectors of major cities should be introduced. A classic example for such a model is the Changa Pani Program at Bhalwal, district Sargodha. This program provides metered safe water almost around the clock at a reasonable cost. For more than 10 years, the Program has relieved the TMA from any repair and maintenance cost (Rasheed et al., 2021). The rationalized water prices for volumetric use of water by different social categories will result in revenue generation which can ultimately be used to improve water supply and treatment infrastructure. However, complete rehabilitation of main and distribution pipe network is very important for uninterrupted and good