significant improvement in water quality of Mardan city from 17% to 55% (from 2002 to 2020). Figure 21: Year wise Drinking Water Quality Status of Mardan City 3.3.4 Peshawar In total, 12 water samples were collected covering the major localities of the Peshawar city as per established sampling design. Analytical findings shows that 50% of water samples collected was unfit due to presence of Iron (Fe). Microbial and chemical contaminations were not found (Table 22). Table 22: The level of major parameters exceeding the NDWQS in Peshawar City Sr. # Water Quality Parameter Unit Total No. of Samples Analyzed Number of Contaminated Samples %age of Contaminated Samples 1 Iron (Fe) mg/l 12 6 50 A year wise trend analysis of water quality of consecutive years shows a decline in safe water percentage of city from 60% in 2010 to 50% in 2020 (Figure 22). 35 Figure 22: Year wise Drinking Water Quality Status of Peshawar City 3.3.5 Risk Map of KPK The risk map of monitored cities in KPK is shown as Figure 23. It can be seen that groundwater of Peshawar, Abbottabad, and Swat cities are marginally safe. However, groundwater in some areas of Mardan city is at Low-risk. Details of hotspot areas of KPK according to contaminants type is given as Annexure 34-35. Figure 23: GIS risk mapping of KPK province 36 3.3.6 Overall Hydro-chemical Facies of KPK Plotting the 44 samples of KPK as Durov diagram (Figure 24) represents the hydrogeochemical behavior of the Province. This shows that the groundwater mainly belongs to rocks that have dominance of Calcium-Bicarbonate (43%) followed by MagnesiumBicarbonate (36%) and Sodium-Bicarbonate (20%). No facies of cation with Sulphate and Chloride are observed. It can therefore, be said that groundwater in the study area is mainly of temporary hardness. Figure 24: Durov diagram depicting geochemical processes in groundwater of KPK 3.4 Balochistan Province Balochistan is an arid to semi-arid region characterized by low rainfall and frequent dry spells and persistent droughts. The scarcity of water is one of the most critical issues of the province. The main sources of drinking water are springs, streams, rivers and karezes. In most of the area, karezes were persistent and sufficient water was available to meet requirements. With the widespread introduction of tubewell technology, many karezes dried because of overexploitation. The increase in population and demand for economic development has resulted in indiscriminate abstraction of groundwater, which