as they are also have the responsibility for fetching water from distances. In 2005, Roseman estimated death of about 0.25 million children per annum because of diarrhea & related diseases in Pakistan. Each year about ten thousand people die in just Karachi due to renal infection caused by unsafe water. In 20005, Aziz JA discussed that because of unsafe drinking-water, people continuously suffer from waterborne diseases. Contaminated drinking water diseases caused about 40% of all deaths and about 30% of all diseases in Pakistan. Diseases like cholera, typhoid, hepatitis and dysentery are repeatedly reported throughout Pakistan. Diarrhoea is second highest in numbers amongst 15 top infectious diseases in less than 5 years of age children. This clearly indicates the faecal contamination of drinking-water in Punjab, Pakistan. As described by Haydar et al. (2009) in Pakistan nearly 40% expiries and 30% ailments are allied to hazardous water. Due to contaminated drinking water, every fifth individual suffers from disease. It is projected that more than three million Pakistanis suffer from waterborne illnesses and annually 0.1 million individuals don‟t survive. In Pakistan, an estimated 44% population doesn‟t have access to safe drinking water whereas facts increase to 80% in rural areas. Nearly 1.1 billion populations are deficient to access basic drinking water and sanitation. On the other side, it is indicated that there is still 2.4 billion people who are lack of safe drinking water and improved sanitation system across the globe. As viewed by Muhammad et al. (2012), diseases particularly diarrhoea is one of the leading cause of disease associated with drinking contaminated water is responsible for 2.5 million childhood deaths every year. According to Khalil et al (2016) Pakistan is blessed with surface and ground resources, but with the passage of time water remains an acute resource for sustained safety of the people. Diarrhea is well-recognized water born disease caused by rotavirus among children. Water borne diseases can have a significant impact on the economy which results in increased number of deaths. Moreover, 60% of the deaths are due to diarrhoea caused by pathogens, impure drinking water or food. In 2007 Fahim Jahangir Khan and Yaser Javed wrote about the Provision of safe drinking water & adequate sanitation in the Pakistan. The Provision of safe drinking water, adequate sanitation and personal hygiene are important to control trachoma, malaria, diarrhoea, hepatitis A & hepatitis B, morbidity, morbidity levels and the sustainable environmental