Diplomacy." A total of 52 participants presented their research findings, contributing valuable insights into water sustainability. Dr. Rashid Aftab concluded the conference with closing remarks, Professor Dr. Anis Ahmad Khan addressing on the occasion Group photo of panelists 45 summarizing the key outcomes and reinforcing the need for continued efforts toward water sustainability. The event concluded with Ms. Saiqa Imran, Director of Water Quality at PCRWR, delivering the vote of thanks and distributing certificates and shields to participants and organizers. The 8IWC underscored the critical importance of valuing water in the face of climate change and urbanization, fostering a collaborative approach to ensuring a sustainable water future for Pakistan. Group photo of workshop participants Group photo of panel discussion participants 46 Inaugural Ceremony of Intelligent Irrigation Technology Promotion Center PCRWR held the inaugural ceremony for the Intelligent Irrigation Technology Promotion Center at its R&D farm in Sialmore. The event took place at the PCRWR Headquarters, Islamabad on November 30, 2023, and was attended by representatives from PCRWR and the China Water Resources Bei Fang Investigation Design and Research Co. Limited (BIDR). The ceremony was initiated by Dr. Hifza Rasheed, Director General, PCRWR, who welcomed the attendees and addressed the significant challenges faced in water resources management in Pakistan. Dr. Rasheed underscored the urgent need for technological innovation to address these challenges. Ms. Bareerah Fatima, Deputy Director, PCRWR, provided an overview of PCRWR's research infrastructure. She detailed the various agroecological zones and the spatial and temporal variations in water resource availability and use. Mr. Liu Hairui, Vice President, BIDR, highlighted the Chinese government's various initiatives in water management. He expressed hope that the collaboration between PCRWR and BIDR would effectively address issues related to crop productivity and water management at the farm level. The ceremony concluded with Dr. Hifza Rasheed and Mr. Liu Hairui, accompanied by their teams, officially inaugurating the Intelligent Irrigation Technology Promotion Center. A glimpse of the ceremony 47 In-Country Capacity Building Training Program for Enhancing Water Quality Systems to Achieve SDG 6.1 in Pakistan PCRWR in collaboration with the Ministry of Climate Change, Government of Pakistan, and the Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA), organized a specialized training program at PCRWR, Islamabad on August 15, 2023. This program was designed to enhance water quality systems and contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 6.1. The training session was attended by professionals from the Public Health Engineering Departments (PHED)