(HCGI); studies conducted in emergency settings or refugee camps; or studies conducted only with specific populations such as HIVThe Author(s) BMC Public Health 2017, 17(Suppl 4):776 Page 102 of 158 infected persons. We also excluded studies where multiple interventions were evaluated together and the impact of a single intervention could not be inferred, or where the data were not reported sufficiently to be included in a meta-analysis. Assessment of risk of bias The quality of studies was assessed using methods adapted from the Cochrane ‘Risk of bias’ assessment tool [12] and the Child Health Epidemiology Reference Group (CHERG) guidelines [13]. For each study, two reviewers independently assessed the quality of included studies for the following domains; allocation concealment, sequence generation; blinding of outcome assessors, blinding of participants and personnel, and incomplete outcome data. During quality assessment, RCTs and cRCTs started at a ‘high’ rating and quasi-experimental (QE) studies started at a ‘low’ rating with each study’s rating adjusted accordingly and given either high, moderate, low or very low scores. Where a study reported multiple outcomes, we assigned a separate overall study score for each, depending on how the outcome was measured. Data analysis We entered the abstracted effect estimates into Review Manager (RevMan) 5.3 and made calculations where necessary [12, 14]. In duplicate, the effect of the interventions on diarrheal outcomes was extracted, and calculated when necessary. These included risk ratios (RRs), odds ratios (ORs), rate ratios, means ratios, and longitudinal prevalence ratios, depending on how the individual study authors chose to display the effect. For treating all effect measures as equivalent, the design effect was considered for the various effect measures for common outcomes like diarrhea. The different measures of effect were then converted to a single measure for such outcomes [15]. In our analysis, ORs were transformed into RRs using an assumed control risk and formula recommended by Higgins et al. [12]. Where studies presented outcomes at different time points, we selected the effect estimate from the longest follow-up time. When studies provided effect estimates separated into different age strata of children 0–5 years old, we combined the point estimates from each stratum in RevMan using fixed effects models and then added the resulting pooled effect estimate into our main metaanalysis [16]. To quantitatively synthesize the available Fig. 1 Search flow diagram The Author(s) BMC Public Health 2017, 17(Suppl 4):776 Page 103 of 158 Table 1 Characteristics of