health production function. While Cropper (1981) explored the consequences of introducing pollution variables in the health production function, Harrington and Portney (1987) extended the framework to a model deriving individual choice in terms of willingness-topay. The following model of defensive behaviour and illness is based on the treatment by Alberini, et al. (1996) which itself was inspired from the work of Harrington, Krupnick, and Spofford (1989). The individual derives utility from the consumption of a numeraire good , normalised with a price of one, leisure while illness causes disutility; thus, with Times pent ill is modeled as a function of the exposure to contaminants and averting or defensive behaviour to reduce the likelihood of illness which we express as the time the household spends on defensive activities [Alberini, et al. (1996)]. Defensive activity reduces the impact of the exposure to the contaminant, thereby affecting the household’s well-being. Thus, the health production function can be speciﬁed as 926 Allawala, Barry, and Kayani with The household’s budget constraint can then be speciﬁed as where is total non-labour income, is the wage rate, is total time, is the price of defensive activity. The first-order conditions for optimising the Lagrangian: ( ) with respect to , , and are easily shown to be: The optimal defensive behaviour derived from the first-order conditions: is therefore a function of the wage rate, , of non-labor income, , of the cost of the defensive activity, , and of the threat of contamination, . On inserting the optimal into the dose-response function , we obtain: The study will attempt to estimate the last two equations, dose-response function and the defensive behaviour function from the available data. 3.2. Econometric Specification of the Model The model specified in the last section therefore would estimate the health production function and the defensive behaviour function using household-level data to determine how individuals respond to a threat of contamination and illness. While controlling for other variables that affect health status, the estimation procedure involves the estimation of a relationship between illness and the contamination levels. However, while performing actual estimations of the health production function, we would need to be controlling for various other determinants of health stock, such as physical and socio-economic characteristics of age, gender, wage, and education level. Such a model captures the effect of behaviour on health while allowing for the joint determination of health and behaviour, and is