been taken as the variable of interest– it takes a value of 1 when the household reports that it employs measures to purify water prior to drinking the same, otherwise it takes a value of 0. In the survey, sources that are likely to provide water approprite for drinking are identified as improved sources. These include a piped source within the dwelling, yard, or plot; borehole; a protected well; a public tap/standpipe; rainwater; and spring water [WHO and UNICEF Joint Monitoring Program for Water Supply and Sanitation (2010)]. The source of water is taken to be the primary source of water contamination in the household. It takes a value of 1 if it is an improved water source (piped into household, protected well, protected spring, bottled water and filtration plant); otherwise it takes a value of zero (unprotected well, unprotected spring, surface water, tanker truck). Other exogenous variables include household income (categorical variable with five states), education of the head (in years) and the time it takes to get to the water source (in hours). As evident from the economic framework, the defensive behaviour is an endogenous variable in the construction of the health-production function. As such, a Two-Stage Least Square (2SLS) procedure has been employed to estimate the effect of improved water sources and defensive behaviour on the presence of diarrheal diseases among households in Pakistan. The linear specification implies the fact that the estimates of the model can be interpreted directly as the marginal effects of a unit change in one variable while keeping everything else constant. Although both equations have binary dependent variables, Angrist and Pischke (2008) suggest utilising a linear model while taking into account the fact that LPM only gives an approximation of the marginal effects. Nevertheless, to confirm endogeneity of the defensive behaviour variable, endogeneity test statistics will also be reported. The variables for this study are listed in Table 2. 928 Allawala, Barry, and Kayani Table 2 Description of Variables Diarrheal Disease (Response variable) 1 if household reports at least one case of diarrhoea; 0 otherwise Source of Drinking Water (Contamination Source) 1 if household uses improved water source; 0 otherwise Treatment of Drinking Water (Defensive Behaviour) 1 if household uses any method to treat water prior to drinking; 0 otherwise Control variables Household Characteristics Income category of the household Time to get to water source Education of household head 3.3. Hypothesis (i)