energy sources and other household assets. Place of Residence: Least develop area bring more disease rates as there are less nearby health facilities as compared to develop areas. Regions: This variable gives regional variation in disease rates. Table 3. Variable construction and Types Variable Levels (categories) Variable Types Diarrhea Prevalence (dependent) Yes Dummy No Toilet Facility Improved Binary Dummy Unimproved Source of Drinking Water Improved -doUnimproved Current age of child (months) 0-5 Categorical from continuous information of age reported in months 6-11 12-17 18-59 Gender of Child Male Nominal Binary Female Size of Child at Birth Larger Ordinal Categorical Average Small Birth Weight Below 2500 gm Binary from continuous information of weight of child reported in grams ≤2500 gm and above Mother‟s Age 15-19 Categorical from continuous information of age reported in completed years 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 Age difference B/W parents Less than 10 years Binary from continuous information calculated from difference of mother‟s age to father‟s age 10 and above years No. of Household Members Less than 5 Binary form from discrete response on numbers of members living in household 5 and above Mothers Education attainment level Uneducated Ordinal categories developed from continuous completed years of Primary Secondary education attained Higher Father‟s Education attainment level Uneducated Primary Secondary Higher Mother‟s Working Status Not working Binary form Working Maternal Language Urdu Nominal catagories Siraiki Punjabi Sindhi Balochi Pushto Others Wealth Possession Poor Ordinal categories‟ from continuous scale Middle Rich Place of Residence Urban Nominal Categories Rural Regions Punjab Nominal Categories Sindh Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Balochistan Islamabad Gilgit-Baltistan Statistical Analysis Descriptive statistics and regression analysis are performed on data to meet the objective of the study. Following is the brief of tools used in analysis. Descriptive Statistics Trends have been observed by line graphs of percentage of household with water and sanitation facilities and incidence of diarrhea in 1991, 2007 and upto 2013. These data are extracted from three rounds of PDHS (1990-91; 2006-07 and 2012-13). Cross Tabulation Incidence rate of diarrhea by sources of drinking water and sanitation facilities are calculated to highlight the vulnerable sources. These rates are also found for different population strata at national and sub national level. Besides these association background factors of water and sanitation facilities, demographic and socioeconomic factors is measured through chi-square test of independent association. The association is tested at 1%, 5% and 10% level of significance for measuring the