in vulnerable communities. On May 10, 2024, a delegation from DePaul University, including Mr. John Zeigler, Director of Urban Education & Community Partnerships, and Ms. Hiba Zakai, Ph.D. Scholar, visited PCRWR, Islamabad. The visit aimed to explore opportunities for exchanging ideas on promoting innovative urban solutions through community engagement. Mr. John Zeigler expressed his appreciation for PCRWR's research and innovative work. Following the meeting, the DePaul University team was given a demonstration of PCRWR's water conservation and treatment models installed on the premises, including groundwater recharge systems, rainwater harvesting systems, the Hydra Ram Pump, a hand-operated floodwater treatment unit, and constructed wetlands for wastewater treatment. On October 30, 2023, Regional Director, PCRWR, along with a team from UNICEF conducted a field visit to several locations in Sindh to explore solutions for brackish groundwater issues. The visit included assessments at Village Saleh Muhammad Goth in Bin Qasim Town, District Malir; Gulshan-e-Hadid Phase 2; Gharo (THQ Hospital) Taluka Gharo, District Thatta; and Makli (Urban Areas) Taluka Thatta, District Thatta. The aim was to understand the challenges and potential solutions for improving water quality in these areas. Delegation of WaterAid, Lasoona Relief & Development Organization Visited PCRWR Representatives of DePaul University Visit to PCRWR Field Visit of UNICEF Team 77 On May 20, 2024, Dr. Simonetta Siligato, Senior Advisor to the Regional Director of UNOPS Asia Region, visited PCRWR. Accompanied by Arshamah Jamil, Partnerships Specialist, and Wajid Ullah, Partnerships Senior Officer, Dr. Siligato met with Dr. Hifza Rasheed, DG, PCRWR, and Ms. Saiqa Imran, Director of Water Quality. During the meeting, Dr. Hifza Rasheed provided an overview of PCRWR's programs, research accomplishments, and potential future collaborations. She also briefed Dr. Siligato on the support received from UNOPS and KOICA for enhancing the facilities of PCRWR’s National Water Quality Laboratory (NWQL). Following the discussions, Dr. Siligato was given a tour of the NWQL and demonstrations of the on-premises rainwater harvesting system and constructed wetlands for wastewater recycling. The visit highlighted the ongoing efforts and collaborations aimed at advancing water quality research and management. On September 5, 2023, officers from the Agriculture Department’s Water Management Wing and Planning & Evaluation Cell visited PCRWR’s Regional Office in Lahore as part of their training program. The visit aimed to familiarize them with PCRWR’s projects and research activities. Regional Director Mr. Faakhar Raza provided a detailed overview of the water scenarios and challenges faced in Pakistan, supported by