to communities and / or households in their infrastructure. These experiments were successful in Bangladesh and India. This will ultimately improve the health and living standards. The government should support Water and Sanitation plans at an efficient and low cost. In addition, the provision of household subsidies to households, taking into account drinking water treatment at the consumer / household level, should cost rather than costly in complex and costly designs. Waste water should be minimized and eliminate 30 to 50% of all drinking water. Awareness must be necessary in order to minimize deceptive and unsustainable activities, such as the use of stony water for washing cars or irrigation of lawns and gardens. Each of us must understand that less water usage means less wastewater production. Water supply agencies should install meters to charge consumers based on "pay as you use." In such interventions, departments like WASA and CDA can play a major role. There is also a need to increase the percentage of Budget to GDP for the improvement of Water and Sanitation in the country. If immediate action is not taken to address these issues, the amount and quality of the remaining water will have a negative impact on health, education and economic sectors. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) must ensure, before discharging it to the mainstreams, and to improve the drainage network, ensuring higher sanitary coverage, ensuring household waste disposal, commercial and industrial units. References 1. Anteneh, Z. A., Andargie, K., & Tarekegn, M. (2017). Prevalence and determinants of acute diarrhea among children younger than five years old in Jabithennan District, Northwest Ethiopia, 2014. BMC Public Health, 17(1), 99. 2. Arif, A., & Naheed, R. (2012). Socio-economic determinants of diarrhea morbidity in Pakistan. Academic Research International, 2(1), 490. 3. Aziz, J.A., 2005. Management of source and drinking-water quality in Pakistan. 4. Fahim Jahangir Khan and Yaser Javed (2007) “Delivering access to safe drinking water and adequate sanitation in Pakistan” Pakistan institute of development economics 5. Fayehun, O. A. (2010). Household environmental health hazards and child survival in sub-Saharan Africa. 6. Government of Pakistan, „Economic Survey of Pakistan 2008–09‟ 7. Haydar S, Arshad M, Aziz JA. 2009. Evaluation of drinking water quality in urban areas of Pakistan: A case study of southern Lahore. Pakistan Journal of Engineering and Applied Science 5, 16-23. 8. Hosmer Jr, D. W., Lemeshow, S., & Sturdivant, R. X. (2013). Applied logistic regression (Vol.