professionals have already completed a collaborative study with the National Institute of Health (NIH) and the World Health Organization (WHO) on antimicrobial environment surveillance. This study identified the frequency of resistant E. coli in surface water bodies and wastewater, contributing valuable insights into environmental AMR patterns. Additionally, PCRWR experts are participating in the Fleming Fund Fellowship Scheme to enhance their laboratory technical skills for science-based environmental surveillance. The focus is on using Vibrio cholerae as an indicator organism to control the prevalence of waterborne outbreaks in Pakistan, while also strengthening the institution's profile and collaborations in AMR networks. This new molecular laboratory marks a significant advancement in Pakistan's efforts to address the challenges and gaps in environmental AMR surveillance, positioning PCRWR at the forefront of monitoring and mitigating antimicrobial resistance in the environment. ISO 17025:2017 Accreditation and EPA Certification The National Water Quality Laboratory (NWQL) of PCRWR has maintained its ISO 17025 accreditation status since 2007 and currently holds this prestigious accreditation with the Pakistan National Accreditation Council (PNAC) until February 2025. This longstanding commitment to quality testing demonstrates NWQL's adherence to international standards. Additionally, on April 16, 2024, the laboratory achieved another milestone by obtaining certification from Pakistan's Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), under the Ministry of Climate Change. This certification is crucial for providing certified testing services to industries in Pakistan, in compliance with the Environmental Protection Ordinance 61 61 62 62 63 Human Resource Development 63 64 64 65 Two-Days Training of Trainers on Risk-Based Water Quality Surveillance & Monitoring On July 19-20, 2023, PCRWR, in collaboration with the Public Health Engineering Department (PHED) Sindh and supported by the World Health Organization (WHO), conducted a Training of Trainers on "Risk-Based Water Quality Surveillance & Monitoring" at PCRWR Regional Office, Karachi. The training aimed to enhance the capabilities of professionals in riskbased approaches to water quality monitoring and surveillance. The training included theoretical sessions and hands-on exercises, and was attended by chemists, laboratory staff, field assistants, and engineers from the Karachi Water Supply and Sanitation Board (KW&SB), PHED, and various academic institutions. Participants engaged in comprehensive training sessions designed to improve their skills in managing water quality risks. Two-Day Training of Teachers on WASH in Schools PCRWR in collaboration with UNICEF Pakistan, is advancing the School WASH project to enhance WASH facilities in schools. As part of this initiative, PCRWR organizes periodic WASH awareness sessions to build capacity among