Impact of Clean Drinking Water and Sanitation on Water Borne Diseases in Pakistan Abstract Water is an essential need of human being. Every person on this planet requires at least 20 to 50 liters of safe water in a day for drinking, cooking and other purposes. According to United Nations (UN) the basic human right is to universal access to Safe water, and an essential step towards better living standards all over the world. According to government of Pakistan Economic survey (2008) In Pakistan, it revealed that nearly 50 million people are deprived of Safe drinking water. In this research it is intended to produce trends of Sanitation and safe drinking water situation in Pakistan. This study also looks deep into the relationship of water borne diseases with the background information of the respondents. Which is itself is a contribution of my work on water borne diseases. Secondary Data from Pakistan Demographic Health Survey (PDHS) and Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) has been used. To see the individual impact of environmental, social and demographic characteristics to influence diarrhoea separate equations were executed. Presenting the pathways of communicable diseases, has developed from two model i.e. model of Exposures and health outcomes are difficult by unified factors studied by Montgomery et al., (2007) and model of transmission pathways of fecal-oral diseases studied by Prüss et al., (2002). Results of the study conclude that Post-neonatal i.e. greater than 28 days from birth deaths have a significant proportion caused due to diarrheal morbidity. There are almost 7 postnatal deaths (per thousand) that happen due to childhood morbidity of diarrhea and almost same is for the children who are under five years old. Urban zones showed high prevalence of diarrhea among children and rural areas brought high rates of childhood diarrhea. Incidences of diarrhea are more for households with not-improved toilet facility as compared to those with improved toilet facility. Incidence of childhood diarrhea emerge more for children belonging to households with pit latrine with slab. Educated mothers are hypothesized to be beneficial for less prevalence of diarrhea. In this regard, our investigation shows that, educated mothers are highly influential. In the end Policy Recommendations has been given which are rational to be incorporated in polices for Policy Makers. Key Words: Water, Sanitation, Diarrhoea, Communicable disease and Childhood. Introduction Lack of Proper sanitation & Safe drinking water has been and endures to be a source