Testing Techniques Held in Collaboration with Muslim Hands On October 3-4, 2023, a two-days training workshop on water quality testing, in collaboration with Muslim Hands, was conducted at the PCRWR, Islamabad. The workshop aimed to enhance the capacity of Muslim Hands' regional field staff and country office teams in using the DelAqua Kit, Chlorine Testing Kit, and Arsenic Testing Kit for water quality testing. PCRWR and Muslim Hands jointly facilitated the training sessions, which included both didactic presentations and hands-on practice with the testing kits. A total of 25 staff members, including teams from regional offices and the country office WASH teams, participated in the workshop. The training provided in-depth knowledge and practical skills in using the DelAqua Kit, as well as chlorine and arsenic testing methods. The workshop concluded with remarks from Dr. Hifza Rasheed, Director General (Water Quality), PCRWR, and Syed Zia ul Noor, Country Director of Muslim Hands Pakistan. Certificates were distributed to the participants, marking the successful completion of the training. . 67 Two-Day Teacher Training on Rainwater Harvesting and WASH Practices Held at Islamabad Model Schools On February 15-16, 2024, PCRWR in collaboration with UNICEF, organized a two-day training program for teachers from Islamabad Model Schools. The training aimed to enhance teachers' knowledge and awareness of Rainwater Harvesting Systems and Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene (WASH) practices in schools. Dr. Hifza Rasheed, Director General, PCRWR, inaugurated the event with opening remarks, providing an overview of the challenges and objectives related to health and hygiene in schools. She emphasized that PCRWR's 24 regional and district laboratories have adopted 48 schools to promote a clean and green environment, ensuring access to safe drinking water and the implementation of improved WASH practices. Additionally, she highlighted the installation of rainwater harvesting systems in these schools as a vital step toward water conservation. The training session was led by Dr. Naheed Rajper, UNICEF Coordinator, who provided an insightful introduction to WASH in schools. This was followed by a series of lectures delivered by PCRWR's Water Quality Experts, covering topics such as rainwater harvesting systems, safe drinking water, and effective WASH management in school settings. The interactive session included a group presentation activity to reinforce learning and practical application. The training concluded with remarks from Ms. Saiqa Imran, Director of Water Quality at PCRWR, who emphasized the importance of the teachers' role in promoting these practices. Certificates were distributed to all participants,