implying that the more educated the head is, the more that household will be aware regarding the benefits of treating its water before drinking. Using education of the mother instead of household head’s education (not reported) results in a similar coefficient and significance. Finally, the time taken to get to the water source is also positively and significantly related to the defensive behaviour which could be representative of the fact that households perceive such sources to be contaminated with pollutants and hence are 3 percent more likely to treat it prior to drinking. In the next step, the household health production function has been estimated where the treatment of water is being treated as an endogenous variable. As indicated by economic theory and the comprehensive literature review, the utilisation of an improved water source of drinking water and the treatment of water before drinking (expression of defensive behaviour) lead to a decrease in the presence of diarrheal diseases in the house. In fact, a household which treats water prior to drinking is 31.5 percent less likely to report any case of diarrheal disease as opposed to those who do not undertake any such activity. Similarly, if the household utilises an improved water source, it is 1.6 percent less likely to report presence of diarrheal diseases. Finally, to check whether the use of an endogenous variable in the household production function was justified, endogeneity tests results have also been reported. Both, the Durbin test as well as the Wu-Hausman test, result in the rejection of the null hypothesis of the variable being exogenous and hence our choice of endogenous variable is correct, reinforcing the reliability of the 2SLS model. The household exhibiting defensive behaviour, i.e. treating water prior to drinking, are 31.5 percent less likely to report any cases of diarrheal diseases in the household as opposed to those not employing any such method. The results are comparable to the studies previously done in Jakarta [Alberini (1996)] and India [Dasgupta (2004)]. However, unlike the mentioned studies, the estimation takes into account the endogenous nature of the defensive behaviour as dictated by the economic theory. The confirmation of the endogenous nature of the variable reinforces the reliability of the results while also conforming to the theoretical framework. 932 Allawala, Barry, and Kayani 4.3. Limitations of the Study Although this study is the first to be employed in Pakistan to the best of