survey (2008) in Pakistan nearly 50 million individuals lack availability of Safe drinking water. Only 42% people have access to sanitation services out of which 65% are in urban areas and 30% are in rural areas. In urban areas, about 30% people live in slums. In urban areas, about 30% people live in slums, with entirely insufficient sanitation and sewage dumping facilities. Majority of the people who are living near open drains or sewers particularly affected by sever health issues. Moreover, diarrheal diseases were accounted for 14% of all expiries in children under five. In Pakistan, everyday 670,000 children missed school due to diseases and lack of proper water sanitation system. Pakistan is being hit by PKR 112 billion per annum due to hygiene related illness; it includes disease caused by unsafe water and poor sanitation. In Pakistan, lack of water and sanitation is one of the most recurrent glitches and nearly 16 million individuals do not have access to safe water. In 2016 Dawn published that about 84% to 89% water sources do not fulfill the water quality standards for human consumption. In rural areas, accessibility of tap water is very low, for example in Punjab it is approximately 13% as compared to 43% in urban areas. 88% of water of rural areas from the samples of 21 districts in Punjab was unsafe and similarly 79% of water of rural areas from the samples of 12 districts in Punjab was also hazardous (Daily Times, 2016). It is obvious that rate of mortality is very high due to water borne disease. Correspondingly, in 2017 Daily Times published those nearly 39,000 expiries due to Diarrheal ailments among children under five in 2015 in Pakistan, out of which 22,900 expiries were caused by poor washing habits. Now it is a major concern for policymakers in Pakistan and international organizations working on health in Pakistan. The need for effective policy making to overcome the issue has been recognized. However, before any attempts we made, there is a need to understand the major concern and therefore studies are obligatory in this area. This study is an attempt to improve our understanding of the issue and come up with solid Policy recommendations to tackle this problem of impure sanitation system and poor drinking water in the country. Objective “The study will address the water quality issues with respect to water borne disease (diarrhea) and the