review. Conclusively, policy recommendations will be provided along with potential directions into which further research can be taken. 1http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/diseases-risks/en/ 2http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.RUR.TOTL.ZS 3http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs310/en/ 4http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs330/en/ Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water 919 2. LITERATURE REVIEW Since the wake of Industrial Revolution during the late 18th century, pollution has been present as the negative externality of the mechanical and economic transformation; but it is relatively recently that it has been considered a problem. Although higher economies of scale are the result of modern industrialisation along with the formation of urban centres, these same factors also result in various externalities, the most important of which is environmental degradation. This is due to the simple fact that public, legislative and scientific awareness of the seriousness of air pollution has come only, after many major episodes, in the last decade. 2.1. BOD due to Unsafe Drinking Water—Local Evidence Water being the crucial factor for the existence of life, access to clean drinking water is the most imperative determinant for a healthy human life. Water pollution has become one of the crucial factors impacting the public health. Pakistan has poor drinking water quality since water sources are contaminated with harmful chemicals and bacteria. The benchmark set by WHO regarding water quality in Pakistan is continuously being violated. This has become a source of concern for both urban and rural areas. Toxic metals, pesticides and improper treatment of sewage waste before dumping in water has been responsible for the contamination of ground and surface water. Haydar, Arshad, and Aziz (2009) attempted to assess the quality of water in Lahore, supplied by Water and Sanitation Agency (WASA). Water samples were collected before and after monsoon from four different sources in southern Lahore. Four most important physicochemical parameters and two bacteriological parameters were examined and were also analysed with respect to the benchmark provided by World Health Organisation (WHO) regarding clean drinking water. Results revealed that physicochemical parameter of clean drinking water was observed to be satisfactory; however, before the monsoon, 50 to 62.5 percent samples had presence of bacteriological contamination. It was also estimated that contaminated water supply sources are responsible for 40 percent of deaths and 30 percent of the diseases in Pakistan. Diarrhea was found to be majorly responsible for the death of infants. Hence, it can be concluded that water pollution is heavily responsible for poor public health as it contaminates the water sources. This study