services, the lowest indicator will be baseline of the defined area. So current baseline/ status of safely managed sanitation in Punjab cannot be set at this stage. SDG INVESTMENT NEEDS The investment needs to achieve SDGs of water and sanitation are being defined for the province. The WASH Sector Development Plan 2014-2024 identified that annual PKR 40 billion will be required for next 10 years to reach 85% population for safely managed drinking water and 65% population for safely managed sanitation. FIGURE 7: INVESTMENT NEEDS FOR WATER AND SANITATION IN PUNJAB The above graph depicts annual amount of funds including 8% inflation that is required for next 10 years. The Government of Punjab spent PKR 36 billion during financial year 2015-2016. Based on the SDG costing tool developed by World Bank and UNICEF, it is estimated that Pakistan will need PKRs 200 billion annually to meet SDG target of water and sanitation, and the calculations for Punjab have not yet been made. RECOMMENDATION / WAY FORWARD 1. Transforming the new SDG development framework into an action framework requires revision in existing policies, resourcing the SDG, redefining monitoring framework and realigning the governance structure. Revision of drinking water policy and sanitation policy for alignment with SDGs is recommended. 2. Review and refine the existing legislative and operational frameworks related to safely managed water and sanitation services especially around availability, operation and maintenance, tariff rationalization including water metering, sludge management and community participation. 3. Devise a formula for distribution of WASH funds at the district and regional (divisional) levels. This formula should include weightage of poverty, WASH access and geographical size of the districts and should be based on newly agreed SDGs baseline with three years rolling investment plans. 4. Institutionalize water quality and waste water/sewage treatment in all stages of project planning, development and execution for ensuring access and availability of safe water and sanitation services in the provinces. 5. Community awareness and mobilization should be initiated for safely managed water and sanitation services with a key emphasis on developing and implementing cost effective techniques/ approaches preferably through public private partnerships and community investment models. 6. The periodic Joint Sector Review for WASH should be institutionalized, by bringing different stakeholders together especially senior political leadership, with a common performance review framework and M&E for WASH as per the SDGs criterion. The Government of Punjab shall calculate the SDG costs for safely