for Pakistan Approach to Total Sanitation (PATS) is being institutionalized through Local Government Academy and formation of district WASH Coordination Committees. Moreover, WASH has been added in the curriculum and training modules of Lady Health Workers and School Health & Nutrition Supervisors. Very recently, Punjab School WASH strategy has been developed, and this is being integrated in the school education road map. The Punjab Local Government Act 2013 envisages the responsibilities of provision, access, operation and maintenance of drinking water and improved sanitation services to respective councils within their jurisdictions including urban and rural areas. However, overall legal framework for drinking water, sanitation and hygiene is fragmented especially around operation and maintenance (O&M), community participation, and resource allocations criterion. ACCESS TO DRINKING WATER As per the Punjab Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) 2014, about 94% of the population uses an improved source of drinking water – 89% in urban areas and 97% in rural. Around 72.3% population of the province uses ground water as drinking water source extracted by hand-pumps or motorised pumps. Overall, 19.2% population has access to tap water; with 39.2% in urban areas, and 9.6% in rural areas. Overall, 80.8% of the population has access to improved water sources located at their premises that is higher in rural areas (84.3%) compared to urban areas (73.7%). FIGURE 1: IMPROVED WATERINCOME GROUPS A review of access to improved water in different income quintiles reveals that the coverage goes down 97.6 98.0 96.3 91.6 88.5 80.0 85.0 90.0 95.0 100.0 Percent Urban Rural Overall 2 from the poorest to the richest, and it is more visible in urban areas compared to rural areas, and this is mainly because the richest are using local vendors or bottled water that is considered unimproved under definition defined by Joint Monitoring Programme (JMP) Report that records and tracks progress of WASH in the world. ACCESS TO WATER QUALITY As per Vision 2025 document of Government of Pakistan, water contamination and poor water quality have direct and very significant impact on the nation’s health with water borne diseases accounting for 70% of all common diseases that impact the national health. This has been further recognized in the newly launched Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as one of the key parameters for the newly defined target of safely managed water sources. The technical assessment of water supply schemes in 21 districts in north and central Punjab, conducted