disposal of untreated sewage waste into water bodies. The author also suggests that all major cities should have sewage treatment plants and also laid emphasis on the formulation of national standards for drinking water quality that can help to tackle the prevailing poor water quality condition in Pakistan. After a thorough review of the existing literature, we were not able to find any study assessing the link between the unsafe drinking water and the prevalence of diarrheal diseases in the country along with the effectiveness of any defensive activity against the diseases. We hope that the present study will prove to be an initiation into a new arena of research that the future researchers will carry forward. 2.2. Valuation of Health Effects due to Unsafe Drinking Water A seminal study in this context was performed by Alberini, Eskeland, Krupnick, and McGranahan (1996) who estimated the effects of infrastructural and behavioural variables on the prevalence of diarrheal diseases in Jakarta using household defensive expenditure function. Employing a major household survey conducted by the Stockholm Environment Institute in 1991, the authors have attempted to model two simultaneous equations representing the diarrheal illness and the defensive behaviour by the household using bivariate probit regression; however, owing to the fact that almost all the households included in the sample boil their water prior to drinking, the study utilises hand-washing as the proxy for defensive behaviour. The results indicate that interruptions in the water supply act as hindrance to defensive behaviour (handwashing) which results in a higher incidence of diarrheal diseases. Consequently, the presence of a washbasin near the latrine area is strongly associated with defensive behaviour and leads to lower illness. The authors, however, also point out the fact that the incidence of illness in the sample used was really low and hence hypothesis-testing was rather difficult. Influencing the work of Dasgupta (2004) (from which this study partially draws inspiration from), the author attempted to value health consequences of water pollution in Delhi. Using a health production function framework, the author jointly estimated the dose-response and the defensive behaviour functions to model real-life situations. The WTA measure for the reduction in water quality for the entire population of Delhi has been estimated using cost-of-illness (COI) framework eventually. Dwight, Fernandez, Baker, Semenza and Olsen (2005) also utilised an extensive COI approach to value the GI, ARI, ear and eye ailments resulting from polluted recreational waters