mothers married in early ages, children having small size at birth and ages less than 24 months and children belonging to uneducated mothers. Although Punjab comes with lower rates of diarrhea morbidity but in some districts like Rajanpur, Rahimyar Khan, Lahore, Gujranwala and Rawalpindi where situation is not proper due to poverty, early age marriages, small size of babies at birth etc. It has been observed that the prevalence of most common water born disease i.e. childhood diarrhoea, in the presence of improved and non-improved sources of drinking water and type of toilet facility. These two variables are often considered as common environmental household level indictors. It was hypothesized that use of improved sources of drinking water and sanitation may support the decrease in rates of childhood diarrhoea. Regression analysis provide evidence in support of our hypothesis that, disease rate does not improve if unimproved water and sanitation prevails. Especially source of drinking water put significant impact on diarrhoea rates. Education and working status of mother were considered to depict the socio economic factors influencing childhood diarrhea. Educated mothers are hypothesized to be beneficial for less prevalence of diarrhea. In this regard, our investigation shows that, educated mothers are highly influential. Working status of mothers shows some kind of empowerment and autonomy of women. Economically active women may contribute to support the household economic status hence contributing to child health care. In Pakistani society mother are usually less likely to work and husbands are considered as major working person to regulate the household prosperity. Mothers who do not work are more likely to spend time better with their children as compared to working ones. Our data shows significant impact of working status on childhood diarrhea and provide evidence according to our assumptions and hypothesis. On assumption of decrease in rates of diarrhea due to improvement in child health immunity with growing ages, a hypothesis was developed to test it and we found that current age of child is highly influential to monitor the rates of diarrhea. Size of child at birth and weight of child at birth were included to see health status of baby at the time of birth. Children with smaller body sizes are assumed to be less immune, and as body size increase it was considered that body‟s immunity against diseases linearly increases and child may fight better if they have better health status at the beginning