measures were undertaken by the provinces, which resulted in an improved access to safe water from comparison is from 2010 to 2015 15% in 2010 to 31% in 2015. However, this slow paced improvement despite increased annual spending of Rs. 91 billion financial comparison 2016-17 to 2019-20 (2016-17) to Rs. 157 billion (2019-20) is questionable. This highlights the lack of effective planning and availability of essential human resources to carry out the water sector activities. Some of the major constraints identified in the supply of safe water were water scarcity, intermittent water supply, improperly designed water supply schemes, cross contamination caused by the closely laid water supply and sewage pipelines, disposal of untreated sewage and industrial effluents and inadequate technical capacity of the service providers. Moreover, unsustainable and unrestricted groundwater abstraction policies, lack of strict enforcement of groundwater laws and poor governance have placed immense stress on the groundwater quality and quantity in the country (Iqbal et al., 2020). Federal and provincial governments had taken various initiatives in the past to mitigate the above situation such as Clean Drinking Water for All (CDWA) in 2004 and Punjab Saaf Pani Company (PSPC) in 2014. These initiatives failed to provide any breakthrough regarding provision of safe drinking water. The main reasons of their failure were provision of decentralized solutions, lack of ownership, poor water pricing and lack of service delivery concept. Later, in 2015 Pakistan adopted the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which calls for country-wide access to safe drinking water by 2030 through SDG target 6.1. Following this, provincial and local governments expedited their efforts. However, limited progress in achieving this target demands the root cause analysis and to redefine the strategies. 2 Achieving SDG target 6.1 by 2030 and to correlate the policy actions with performance in the water sector require continuous monitoring and reporting. In this regard, reliable water quality data is very important. The availability of extensive water quality data as provided by the PCRWR in 2015 and as presented in this report have significant importance for the water supply agencies, for WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme (JMP), for reporting the progress on the SDG target 6.1, for setting the baselines and targets, and for planning and management of this precious resource. The current report presents the water quality status of 29 major cities and trend analysis of 26 cities with respect to water quality improvement. The report also outlines