Lahore, Gujranwala and Rawalpindi where situation is not up to the standard due to poverty, early age marriages, small size of babies at birth etc. Policy Recommendations If we are committed to improve water and sanitation, we need a coherent policy framework and investment in the Water and Sanitation sector to improve our people's health and life. National Water and Wastewater Policies documents provide a comprehensive framework of measures. Nevertheless, these policies should be followed every five years, including midterm evaluations and independent evaluations. Water supply and management agencies should be responsible for maintaining the water quality in the water distribution system to the consumer level, which provides cooling amplifier at various pumping stations. The role of development partners and the private sector for development in the Water and Sanitation sector is very important. The government should encourage the private sector to provide Water and Sanitation services, as is the case with other social sectors, such as health and education. The Water and Sanitation service is the legal responsibility of the provinces and local authorities, so policymakers and local government officials should understand the deterioration situation and support the increase in the share of Water and Sanitation's expenditure on gross national product. Water and Sanitation costs, as given in the PRSP, provide collective costs that do not show the proportion of water and sanitation separately. Therefore, it is not feasible to assess the impact of costs on water and sanitation separately without defaults. But in the local government system, 25 percent of the total provincial development budget is compelled to pay by the Citizens' Society Citizen Community Boards (CCBs). Creating awareness of the results of CCBs can lead to changes in the living conditions of the poor. Communities should be encouraged to spend on their interest in the Qarz al-Hasan funds. For effective awareness, educational institutions, mosques, including mass media, should be used to understand the importance of quality and quantity of water among users. Volt and the private sector support small and small schemes for income generation opportunities only. They also need to invest in small and medium-sized loans to communities and / or households in their infrastructure. These experiments were successful in Bangladesh and India. This will ultimately improve the health and living standards. The government should support Water and Sanitation plans at an efficient and low cost. In addition, the provision of household subsidies to households, taking