Management in the Southern Indus Basin, Pakistan (WAC/2021/136).” The MoU outlines the provision of research services aimed at addressing salinity issues in the region through innovative solutions involving trees and shrubs. MoU Signed with US-Pakistan Center for Advanced Studies in Water 85 Services 88 85 86 86 87 National Water Quality Laboratory of PCRWR is one of the state of the art Laboratories of Pakistan with high tech water testing equipment and well trained professional. It is ISO17025:2017 accredited Laboratory. The provision of water and wastewater testing and advisory services to the general public and public and private organizations is a continue activity. NWQL is also executing the ground water, surface water as well as wastewater assessment and monitoring projects of government and or with collaboration of national and international organizations. PCRWR has a fully trained team equipped with latest tools and equipment for groundwater investigations. Usually, Electrical resistivity surveying methods have been widely used to determine the thickness and resistivity of layered media for the purpose of assessing groundwater potential and drilling boreholes in fractured unconfined aquifers. Laser Land Leveling is a process of smoothening the land surface from its average elevation with a certain degree of desired slope using a guided laser beam through-out the field. Laser leveling of agricultural land is a recent resource-conservation technology. The Research and Demonstration Farms of PCRWR are equipped with the latest Laser Land Levelers and the services are provided to the farmers on their request. Water Quality Testing and Analysis Groundwater Investigations Laser Land Leveling 88 PCRWR has maintained a state of the art soil physics laboratory at its headquarters. Soil testing is an important diagnostic tool for determining the nutrient needs of plants and for environmental assessments. The major laboratory testing includes soil moisture percentage, organic matters in soil, soil moisture retention curves, soil moisture extraction for chemical analysis. PCRWR soil physics laboratory is unique in Pakistan providing all above mentioned tests under one roof. PCRWR launched the service on April, 2016, which is an outcome of international collaboration extended by the University of Washington (UW) and NASA. The SMS based Irrigation Advisory Services of PCRWR are being provided free of cost to about 20,000 farmers on weekly basis in 41 districts of Pakistan. However, PCRWR envisions extending the service to all farmers of irrigated areas, through international and national coordination. Soil Testing Service Irrigation Advisory Services 89 Research Publications