The agricultural sector must be priced on the basis of scale and purpose. The State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) also believes that it is unproductive for Pakistan if 90 percent of its water is consumed by the agricultural sector and it critiqued this consumption pattern as “inefficient redistribution”19. Increase in Population Pakistan has the 6th highest annual population growth rate of 2.4 percent counting 207 million people20. It is equal to an increase of 57 percent since the last Population Census conducted in 1998 and is further expected to increase by same growth rate. This growth also caused the demand for water to rise. No Metering or Regulation of Industrial Use The problem is significant due to factors such as inequitable uses within sectors and free riding. Water management is left with no incentives for efficient use as there are no charges on actual consumption such as metering. The usage of water by the industry is not metered, and the regulation on the discharge of industrial waste is not being properly monitored due to which the water quality is deteriorating. Industrial Growth Drinking water is subjected to careless disposal of industrial wastewater and outdated sewage piping, which is detrimental for people’s health. The non-existent regulation of agricultural fertilizers, chemicals and pesticides allow such chemicals to seep into the ground. Export of 18Rehman, A., et al. Fertilizer consumption, water availability and credit distribution: Major factors affecting agricultural productivity in Pakistan. Journal of the Saudi Society of Agricultural Sciences (2017), http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jssas.2017.08.002 19 SBP, 2017:97 20 Raba, 2017 Policy Brief Addressing The Drinking Water Challenge in Pakistan CRCP Publications Page | 6 water heavy industrial products such as jeans, which are using up to 8,200 liters of water per pair, is a heavy burden on the water tables21. Federal Intention – Provincial and Tehsil Responsibility Drinking water policy formulation is the constitutional responsibility of provincial and district governments. In the past, all major interventions and programs aiming at improvement in accessibility and quality of drinking water have been undertaken on national level, such as Clean Drinking Water for All Program, National Program for Prevention & Control of Hepatitis, and donor-funded Safe Drinking Water and Hygiene Promotion Project, etc. The Clean Drinking Water for All Program was initiated in 2005 that focused on the construction of 445 water purification plants of 2,000 gallons per hour in all Pakistani tehsils. However, the Program was halted