and working status), demographic (age of child and mother, gender of child and size of child at birth) and background characteristics (ethnicity, household wealth status and region of residence of children) on prevalence rate of diarrhea among children under five. Interestingly, not-Improved drinking water sources emerge as significant with less chances of diarrhea as compared to improved one. More chances of diarrhea emerge in full model where socioeconomic, demographic and background characteristics are contributing. As soon as education of mother improves the chances of diarrhea depreciates. Expectedly, children from working mothers are almost 1.2 times more likely to get diarrhea as compared to those from non-working mothers. Female children, children having at-least 18 months age are least likely to have diarrhea as compared to male children and those with age least than six months, respectively. Children born small have high odds of diarrheas as compared to large size children. Children belonging to mothers with Punjabi and Siraiki ethnicity are less likely to have diarrhea as compared to children belonging to urdu ethnic mothers. Children who are rich are less likely to get diarrhea as compared to poor children and those belonging to Sindh and GilgitBaltistan regions have least chance of childhood diarrhea as compared to children from Punjab region. Conclusion This study shows insightful results on the effects of availability of Safe drinking water and proper sanitation facilities on child morbidity and mortality rates across the four provinces. It also throws light on the effects of the mother‟s age, education, ethnicity and working status on the health and well-being of the child. Moreover, our study highlights the incidence of childhood morbidity due to diarrhea among children from households using different type of toilet and drinking water facility. The study looks inside the correlates of diarrhea not only at National Level but also Provincial and District Level. Provincially, Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa regions found with highest rates of diarrhea. In Sindh Tando Allahyar, Matiati, Hyderabad, Badin, Karachi East and Karachi South are found most vulnerable areas where prevalence of diarrhea found non-ignorable and it is surrounded by poor households, children with mothers married in early ages, children having small size at birth and ages less than 24 months and children belonging to uneducated mothers. Although Punjab comes with lower rates of diarrhea morbidity but in some districts like Rajanpur, Rahimyar Khan, Lahore, Gujranwala and Rawalpindi where situation is not proper due