Table 1. Sample Size of Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey Region Sample Households Children (0-59 months) Punjab 41413 (97.6% response) 47841 Sindh 19360 (94.4% response) 47202 1 MICS (2014) Punjab Report, Page 58, Table CH.5: Care-seeking during diarrhea 2 MICS (2014) Sindh Report, Page 51, Table CH.5: Care-seeking during diarrhea Limitations of Data PDHS is based on provincial sample design. Hence it provides National and Province level estimates. MICS are limited to District level estimates for only Punjab and Sindh Districts. Last PDHS round (3) was undertaken during 2012-13 and MICS were conducted in 2014. For district level rates of diarrhea, PDHS could not comply hence MICS was selected on the bases of similarity of definition of our dependent variable and closeness of years of surveys. Schedule of data collection is totally different for both MICS and PDHS. Definitions and data dictionaries used in PDHS and MICS are similar for selected variables. Respondents All children ages 0-59 months are our target population. Information of diarrhea prevalence is collected from “Child Health” section of “Individual Ever Married Questionnaire”. This section provides comprehensive information of incidences diarrhea and its treatment. Variables of Study Childhood diarrhoea has taken as output indicators of household poor environmental conditions. Environmental conditions i.e., source of washing facility and safe drinking water affects the children health (under five years). Common viral disease spread rapidly if these conditions are not satisfactory hence hygienic. Socioeconomic status gives population subgroups that are vulnerable. Demographic characteristics gives insight into influence of population based characteristics that influence the diarrhea and household level background characteristics provide a snap shot of inherited factors that do not affect diarrhoea directly but are influencing it. Dependent Variable It takes the value „1‟ if events of morbidity (diarrhea in last 14 days), due to water borne disease, are observed and „0‟ if no such evidence is found among children under the age of five years old. Independent Variables There are four major groups of independent variables i.e. (toilet and drinking water facility), socioeconomic (education and working status), demographic (age of child and mother, gender of child and size of child at birth) and background characteristics (ethnicity, household wealth status and region of residence of children). Table 2. Domains and Variables Domains Variables Reference Demographic Age of Child; Age of Mother; Gender of Child Anteneh et al 2017; Murtaza et al 2015; Imran et al (--); Arif and Naheed 2012;