of water resource. The PCRWR test results support this assertion. Generally, for all provinces of Pakistan, the delivery is spread across a range of institutions with varying capacities, differing reporting lines and limited coordination. This includes Public Health Engineering Department (PHED), Local Government and Community Development Department (LG&CD) and Water and Sanitation Agencies (WASAs). The LG&CD holds a broad responsibility for service delivery, however, in reality, the service delivery remains within the purview of the PHED (with community engagement) and urban services in large cities are delivered by the Water and Sanitation Authorities (WASAs). A World Bank study assesses a financing gap for the sector in the range of US$1 billion annually and further states, that “there are significant gaps in investments, which have led to decay in the sector: new monies are generally dedicated to ill-planned asset formation and salaries, with little dedicated to operation and maintenance.”23. Especially the Tehsil Municipal Administrations (TMAs) that is responsible for supply of safe drinking water struggle to finance services. The study further assess that little has been done to enable and incentivize private sector participation, or experiment with public private models of delivery in the sector. 23Sami, 2016: 6 Policy Brief Addressing The Drinking Water Challenge in Pakistan CRCP Publications Page | 8 Recommendations Pakistan is in the middle of a water emergency impacting the lives of millions of Pakistanis, who at times are subjected to consume water unfit for human consumption. This necessitates revisiting the policy and regulatory framework, introducing institutional reforms, forming new partnerships, and introducing efficient technologies.  Legal framework for protection of the rights of consumers is available, but right to safe and clean drinking water still needs to be recognized. The right has been affirmed by international instruments and covenants including; UN General Assembly Resolution 64/292 (2010); UN Human Rights Council Resolution 18/1 (2011); and Rio+20 Outcome Document (2012). The right to safe and clean water has also been recognized in the constitutions or national laws of South Africa, Uganda, Costa Rica, Colombia, the Netherlands, and Belgium etc. It is recommended that federal and provincial governments should provide a legal framework recognizing the right to safe, clean, accessible and affordable drinking water.  Formulation of National Water Policy (NWP) 2018 is a step in the right direction. It is recommended that the federal government should expedite the next steps, including but not limited to development of implementation