2030 impose obligations to ensure access to clean drinking water for all. To achieve this goal following recommendations are given in the light of this monitoring outcome: a. The provincial governments should strengthen water supply institutions; implement policy frameworks and arrange sufficient human and financial resources. b. Pakistan Water Vision 2025 and National Water Policy support an architecture that leads to 100% safe water supply. However, water sector is highly subsidized, and any discussion of tariff and groundwater abstraction reforms is encountered with political opposition. Therefore, achieving SDG 6.1 by 2030 in Pakistan requires substantial reform of water services and controlled groundwater abstraction. c. A proper groundwater monitoring network is needed in all areas of the country. This would help in making informed decisions thus helping to use the available resources optimally. d. Disposal of untreated wastewater results in the contamination of water supplies. The approach of 4R (refuse, recycling, reduce and reuse) of wastewater would result in safe and environmentally sustainable way of wastewater utilization. In all cities of the country, domestic and industrial effluents should be discharged after proper treatment preferably following zero liquid discharge policy (ZLD) and in conformity to the National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS, 1999). In addition, proper sewerage system including sewage collection should also be placed in all the urban and rural areas. Proper distance should be maintained and water supply pipelines should not allow passing across the sewerage lines. e. New water supply schemes should not be approved unless feasibility study of water quality, quantity and its sustainability is carried out. Currently service providers are monitoring their water supplies by themselves. To improve this process and to ensure safe water quality, PCRWR network of water quality laboratories can provide technical support to all the local water supply agencies. f. Alternate sources of water should be identified in areas where the groundwater sources are contaminated due to arsenic, TDS, nitrate and fluoride etc. g. Education, training and awareness from the community level to policy makers on improving access to safe drinking water by removing all barriers will play an important role in achieving SDG 6. h. Strengthening the technical capacity of local, provincial and national water supply authorities is essential for managing and regulating water supply systems across the country. 77 i. Water supply agencies should switch to the application of smart technologies that can improve management and service delivery. This may include smart