Size at Birth of children; age of mother, age difference among parents, Household size and educational attainment of parents, working status within last 12 months and wealth status of mothers and regions from where children belong are found statistically significant subgroups of population surrounding children with diarrhea. Following table presents that incidence of diarrhea is more children with less than 2-years age. Children born small and having low birth weight are vulnerable and pray to diarrhea disease. As soon as age of mother increases the prevalence of diarrhea decreases and higher age difference among parents showing more rates of diarrhea among children under five. Children belonging to Small households, highly educated parents and mothers who do not work have least chances of diarrhea diseases. Children from mothers with Sindhi, Siraiki and Pashto ethnicity, living in rural areas, belonging to mothers with worse wealth status and children living at Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region are more likely to get diarrhea disease. Sub National level Incidence Rates of Childhood Diarrhea Except Islamabad Capital/Gilgit Baltistan territories, the rates of diarrhea are more for children from households with non-improved water and sanitation facilities. Khyber Pakhtunkhwa brings 31% diarrhea rates among children with non-improved sanitation facility where as in Balochistan the situation is better. Children aged 12-17 months prevailing diarrheas highest especially at Sindh. Gender gap is visible at Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan regions. Almost 33% Children born with small size are having diarrhea at Sindh. Urdu speaking population from Punjab and ICT/GB, Sindhi speaking people from Sindh and Balochi speaking people in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan suffer from high prevalence of diarrhea among their children. Least prevalence of diarrhea (8%) is observable at Khyber Pakhtukhwa, among children from highly educated mothers and almost highest rates are visible from working mothers from same region. Poor children showing high diarrhea at Punjab, Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa where as these high rates shifted to children from middle class from Balochistan and ICT/GB regions. District level Incidence Rates of Childhood Diarrhea Punjab District level estimates highlights that, Sheikhupura district brings highest level of diarrhea among children from households with improved sanitation (22%) and this situation is worst for households with not improve sanitation facility (29%) at Sheikhupura. From improved drinking water facility after Hafizabad district (24% diarrhea cases), Sheikhupra is most vulnerable (23% diarrhea cases). However, for children from households with non-improved drinking water, the cases of diarrhea found highest