Papers and Proceedings pp. 917–934 917 Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water in Pakistan: A Defensive Behaviour Approach FIZZAH IFTIKHAR ALLAWALA, SALIK JAVED BARRY, and MUHAMMAD SAMEER KAYANI* The urbanisation and the population boom in the last few centuries have resulted in extreme deterioration of the environment and production of excessive externalities. Over time, it has resulted in a dire impact on the health of human beings, ultimately impacting the economic and social prosperity of human beings all around the globe. Water pollution is one such externality which has led to many epidemics in the past. The present study provides an investigation into the health effects due to unsafe drinking water among households in Pakistan. The study utilises cross-sectional data from Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS) 2012-13 which is representative at the national and provincial levels. Using household as the unit of analysis with a sample size of 13,409, the paper uses 2SLS model to estimate a dose-response function and a defensive behaviour function to determine the effectiveness of treatment of drinking water on the prevalence of diarrheal diseases among households in Pakistan. Moreover, since defensive behaviour is a choice variable, it has also been checked for endogeneity. The results conform to the reviewed literature and the economic theory that defensive behaviour leads to a lower prevalence of diarrheal diseases among households of Pakistan. This study finds that household exhibiting defensive behaviour, i.e. treating water prior to drinking, are is 31.5 percent less likely to report any cases of diarrheal diseases in the household as opposed to those not employing any such method. Possible recommendations and future research agenda have been provided at the conclusion of the study to assist researchers further the results in this regard. The results of the study could assist in devising policies which could be helpful in developing sustainable societies where clean water is readily available. JEL Classification: Q53, I15, H51 Keywords: Water Pollution, Health, Pakistan 1. INTRODUCTION Being the prime factor for the origination of life, access to safe and clean drinking water is a highly crucial determinant of a healthy human life. However, since the dawn of Fizzah Iftikhar Allawala, Salik Javed Barry, and Muhammad Sameer Kayani <sameer.kayani5@ hotmail.com> are affiliated with Institute of Business Administration (IBA), Karachi. Authors’ Note: First and foremost, we would like to thank our research supervisor, Dr Heman Das Lohano. Without his assistance and dedicated involvement