between 2000 and 2015, but still resulted in 1.4 million deaths in 2015.3 Similar ranking was assigned to the distribution of causes of death in children under 5 with 11 percent of the infant mortality being attributed to the cause.4 Diarrheal diseases remain the leading causes of childhood deaths in Pakistan that are preventable with primary health care measures [NIPS and Macro International (2008)]. Such alarming mortality rate among children warrant attention towards the probable link between the provisions of unsafe drinking water, poor sanitation and the incidence of diarrheal diseases among children, particularly in rural areas. Since the poor health of children is representative of current as well as the future economic burden, the present study investigates whether, and to what extent, the households which employ techniques to treat water prior to drinking are successful in thwarting diarrheal diseases as opposed to those who use unsafe water for drinking purposes. The first step to formalise the relationship between the concerned variables will be an exhaustive review of the previously published literature on this topic. In light of the aforementioned discussion, the optimal methodology when drafting the literature review in this context is to form interconnected themes, each one elaborating particular aspect of the concerned topic. Here, the first theme will comprehensively develop the deteriorating effects of water pollution on the population of Pakistan through various qualitative and quantitative research previously carried out. The next theme will be a detailed insight into the methodologies that have been previously adopted to substantiate the link between water pollution and the health effects followed by the valuation of these consequences in monetary terms. A critical analysis of the most relevant literature from all the themes will form the crux of the last segment of the literature view along with identification of gaps in the literature and the contribution that this report will make to fill this gap potentially. Following the review of the literature, data will be selected from appropriate sources, a formal relationship will be estimated between the selected variables, and the results will be interpreted in the light of the literature review. Conclusively, policy recommendations will be provided along with potential directions into which further research can be taken. 1http://www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/diseases-risks/en/ 2http://data.worldbank.org/indicator/SP.RUR.TOTL.ZS 3http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs310/en/ 4http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs330/en/ Diarrheal Diseases Due to Unsafe Drinking Water 919 2. LITERATURE REVIEW Since the wake of Industrial Revolution during the late 18th century, pollution has been present as the