while also encouraging the idea of finding different sites and attempting to control for these differences. Barton and Mourato (2003) have advised against the usage of benefit transfer for policy analysis since it could lead to very unhealthy results. Loomis, Bell, Cooney and Asmus (2009) adopted a choice experiment method to estimate WTP of parents located in San Luis Valley (Colorado) for safer quality water when faced with the risk of shock, brain damage or death of their children. Using nonparents in the survey, they also incorporated the behaviour of altruism in the model. Their results indicate that the theoretical estimates are highly overvalued in comparison to the real values, indicating hypothetical bias. Using the distance functions initially developed by Fare, et al. (1993), HernandezSancho, Molinos-Senante, and Sala-Garrido (2009) have estimated the shadow prices for undesirable water pollutants which can be utilised to construct a CBA framework in order to prioritise the elimination of some specific undesirable pollutants. Cheng, Schuster-Wallace, Watt, Newbold, and Mente (2012) conducted an extensive study on 193 nations to quantify the effect of water quality on infant, child and maternal mortality. With particular emphasis on the attainment of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) related to infant health, maternal health and environmental sustainability, the authors employed simple linear regression and logit model to find statistically significant decrease in mortality with improvement In water and sanitation in every case. Mishra (2014) attempted to value the recreational benefits from the Hussain Sagar Lake in Hyderabad (India) by using a blend of CVM (Stated Preference Approach) and Travel Cost Model (Revealed Preference Approach). The author estimated the demand curve for the improvement in the lake quality, followed by the shift in demand curve due to proposed increase in the admission fee. The estimates seem to be very beneficial from implementation viewpoint for increase in government revenue from the lake. For a meta-analysis and critical survey of the available techniques to determine the total use value of water resources, Birol, Karousakis, and Koundouri (2006) can be referred. 924 Allawala, Barry, and Kayani 2.3. Critical Analysis and Contribution to Literature Undoubtedly, there is no dearth of evidence regarding contamination of water bodies all over Pakistan, as evident from Table 1 (for evidence from before 2010, Azizullah, et al. (2010) provides an extensive meta-analysis). However, there has not been much work in the context of health effects due to contamination of these water