provide a legal framework recognizing the right to safe, clean, accessible and affordable drinking water.  Formulation of National Water Policy (NWP) 2018 is a step in the right direction. It is recommended that the federal government should expedite the next steps, including but not limited to development of implementation strategy, notification of required rules of business, dedicated financial resources for achieving the goals of NWP 2018 etc.  There is a link between NWP and National Drinking Water Policy2009 due to the common resources of water (i.e. glaciers, rivers, canals, lakes, dams, etc.) for drinking, irrigation and industrial use. It is recommended that the National Drinking Water Policy 2009 needs to be revisited on the basis of empirical evidence and updated data.  Federal and provincial governments should provide financial resources, engage with national and international development partners for building capacities and introducing technologies to ensure universal access to safe and clean drinking water. Policy Brief Addressing The Drinking Water Challenge in Pakistan CRCP Publications Page | 9  Water metering system is an inclusive tool in the field of potable water management in developed countries. In some cities of the country, pilot projects of water metering system should also be introduced that will ultimately be helpful to avoid the leakage and theft issues also.  As, per capita water availability in Pakistan has dropped down from the per capita water requirement (1000 m3) set globally. So, billing criteria (tariff) for household and commercial usage should be revised.  Compliance of industrial wastewater treatment should be ensured by the relevant authorities.  Awareness campaigns aimed at increasing behavioral change should be based on the NWP 2018. Women are identified to be important change makers in the areas of conservation efforts and therefore, they should be engaged at every level. Campaign programs at school level by involving the soap, surf and detergent companies could be an effective tool for raising awareness about efficient use of water. Policy Brief Addressing The Drinking Water Challenge in Pakistan CRCP Publications Page | 10 References Ahmed Awais, K. (2018). Pakistan’s municipal water supply — laws and flaws. Daily Times. [online] Available at: https://dailytimes.com.pk/280361/pakistans-municipal-watersupply-laws-and-flaws/. Allah Baksh Sufi, et al., (2011). “Integrated Water Resource Management in Pakistan” Symposium on Changing Environmental Pattern and Its Impact With Special Focus On Pakistan 33, No. 286. Bhatti, H. (2018). SC wraps up Katas Raj case after cement factories agree