Häder (2011) as they discussed the prevailing condition of poor drinking water quality in Pakistan. They have attempted to analyse the major pollutants, health issues related to these pollutants and their sources. Conclusions drawn were similar to Ashraf (2010) and Haydar (2009), as it also strengthens the claim regarding children being highly impacted by diarrheal diseases due to exposure to water contamination and poor drinking water quality. The data evaluated was extracted from a variety of papers in various journals. The critical evaluation of data validates the mentioned concern and also revealed that immediate measures need to be undertaken. It also discusses the environmental legislation introduced in Pakistan and raises the concern on the commitment of government since these legislations have been ineffective to tackle the issue mainly due to the absence of sincerity at the higher level. The presence of heavy metal in water channels used for drinking purposes can be extremely hazardous to health, as discussed in the literature. To further strengthen the validation of this claim Muhammad, Shah, and Khan (2011) evaluated the health risk associated with the presence of high heavy metal concentration in the surface and ground water samples from Kohistan region, Pakistan, used for drinking purposes. Graphite fumace atomic absorption spectrometer was used to investigate the heavy metal concentration and compared with standard limits provided by World Health Organisation and Pakistan Environmental Protection Agency (PEPA). Furthermore, health risk was evaluated such as Hazard Quotient (HQ) and Chronic Daily Intake (CDI) using the heavy metal concentration. Results of CDI revealed that the concentration of zinc (Zn) was highest while Cobalt (Co) had the lowest concentration. Moreover, no risk on health was indicated by HQ on the water samples that were evaluated. The concentration of the majority of heavy metals was within given bench mark set by PEPA and WHO. Anthropogenic and geogenic activities were held majorly responsible for the contamination of water in Kohistan, by multivariate statistical analysis for example cluster analysis (CA), principal component analysis (PCA) and one-way ANOVA. The author concluded that water in the examined area does not influence health negatively, but also suggest that since some heavy metal exceed the permissible limits like lead (Pb) in water samples, it is advisable to consume the water after the treatment. Further Investigation of deterioration of drinking water quality in different urban areas of Pakistan was also done. Farid, Baloch and Ahmed (2012) evaluated