are responsible for 40 percent of deaths and 30 percent of the diseases in Pakistan. Diarrhea was found to be majorly responsible for the death of infants. Hence, it can be concluded that water pollution is heavily responsible for poor public health as it contaminates the water sources. This study recommends that chlorination of water is imperative to eradicate the bacteriological contamination. Ashraf, Maah, Yusoff, and Mehmood (2010) investigated the polluted water irrigation impact on the health of people living in Jamber, Kasur district, Pakistan and also its impact on the environment. Theoretically, it’s evident that using polluted water for irrigation will alter groundwater quality and will exhibit negative impact on the health of people and environment. To analyse the water quality, various parameters were examined including physiochemical parameters, cations, anions, heavy metals and sodium absorption ratio. To evaluate the results, they were compared with National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and they revealed that increase in conductivity, sodium absorption ratio and total dissolved solids had been observed due to polluted water used for irrigation since they exceed the prescribed limit of NEQS. For further analysis, a survey was conducted by interviewing 3222 inhabitants for 12 months. Results revealed that 2351 inhabitants were impacted by various diseases. The problems affiliated 920 Allawala, Barry, and Kayani due to polluted water irrigation were mainly skin issues, nail problem, fever and diarrhea. It further indicated that these diseases results due to the usage of polluted water for drinking or irrigation purposes and mainly impacted children with age 1-10. The results obtained in Jamber was quite similar to the analysis done in southern Lahore by Haydar, Arshad, and Aziz (2009) as it also stated that exposure to water pollution leads to disease like diarrhoea which was common among children and infant. Improvement in sanitation facilities and proper drainage system are some possible solutions suggested by the authors to rectify the issue of water contamination. Similarly, the analysis of water quality provided by Ashraf, Maah, Yusoff, and Mehmood (2010) at a local level was further extended to the whole of Pakistan by Azizullah, Khattak, Richter, and Häder (2011) as they discussed the prevailing condition of poor drinking water quality in Pakistan. They have attempted to analyse the major pollutants, health issues related to these pollutants and their sources. Conclusions drawn were similar to Ashraf (2010) and Haydar (2009), as it also strengthens the claim regarding children