that impact the national health. This has been further recognized in the newly launched Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as one of the key parameters for the newly defined target of safely managed water sources. The technical assessment of water supply schemes in 21 districts in north and central Punjab, conducted by the Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources in 2011 revealed that more than 80% of the population uses ground water and 43% of functional schemes supplied water for less than 5 hours per day, while 31% supplied between 5-10 hours per day. In 80% of the schemes, there is no water treatment facility, while only 12% provide some treatment. As per draft National Water Quality Monitoring Report 2014-2015, around 35% water sources in Punjab are safe for drinking purposesfree from microbiological and chemical contamination (iron, fluoride, nitrates) and physical characteristics (turbidity, hardness, total dissolved solids) compared to 31% in the rest of the country. Efforts to address water quality issues are being taken into account partly through installation of water filtration plants that does not fall under new definition of safely managed water as given in Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Government of Punjab is committed to establish four centers of excellence and 32 water quality laboratories at the district levels in next few years to strengthen water quality as integral component of safely managed water services. ACCESS TO IMPROVED SANITATION As per Punjab MICS 2014, around 3/4th of the population (75%) is using improved sanitation facilities i.e., urban (92%) and rural areas (67%). The Government of Punjab recognized the framework of Pakistan Approach to Total Sanitation (PATS) with a key focus to end open defecation by 2018. Presently, PATS is being implemented in all 36 districts of Punjab with financing from Government of Punjab as well as collaboration with local and international partners. In 2014/2015, nearly 18% population was practising open defecation compared to 23% in 2011, and it is expected that Punjab shall be open defecation free by 2020. PATS focuses on improving behaviour and creating demands for safely managed sanitation systems that include appropriate sewerage and faecal sludge management. FIGURE 2: IMPROVED SANITATIONINCOME GROUPS The data of improved sanitation demonstrated that only 24.7% of the poorest population (lowest quintile) is using improved sanitation as compared to 97% of the richest population (highest quintiles). Further, only 33.8% of HHs in urban areas and 49.1% in rural