2023. In her detailed presentation, Dr. Rasheed addressed the recent flood challenges in Pakistan, emphasizing the country's vulnerability to climate change, the impacts of the 2022 floods, and the legal frameworks for improved water governance. She outlined flood control and management efforts in Pakistan, including ongoing projects and strategies for flood resilience. Dr. Rasheed also highlighted PCRWR’s flood response and Japan's support for flood relief activities. A glimpse of the ceremony 58 Participation in 3rd High-Level Water Conference on International Decade for Action 2018-2028 PCRWR participated in the 3rd HighLevel Water Conference on the International Decade for Action 20182028 held in Dushanbe, Tajikistan from June 10-13, 2024. At the conference, PCRWR was involved in a side event titled "Accelerating the Achievements of Water-Related SDGs: The SDG 6 Policy Support System (SDG-PSS)," organized by the United Nations Office for Sustainable Development. During this side event, Mr. Muhammad Kashif Manzoor, Deputy Director, PCRWR, presented on the application of the SDG 6.0 Policy Support System and its implementation within Pakistan. As a panelist, he shared insights and experiences related to the use of SDG-PSS in advancing water-related Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and contributed to discussions on effective strategies for achieving these goals. PCRWR’s Hybrid Wetlands Earn UNESCO Ecohydrology Recognition Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources (PCRWR) has pioneered the use of treated wastewater for horticultural and agricultural applications in response to water scarcity exacerbated by climate change. PCRWR's innovative approach involves the construction of hybrid wetlands designed to effectively remove pollutants, enhance cost-efficiency, and conserve energy. Aligned with Pakistan's National Water Policy, PCRWR's model constructed wetlands covering 700 sq. ft demonstrate the principles of Reduce, Recycle, and Reuse. These wetlands facilitate environmentally sustainable water conservation, improve water quality, and support biomass production. By channeling wastewater from three building blocks, including chemical and microbiology laboratories, to these hybrid wetlands, PCRWR ensures compliance with national environmental standards. The treated water is repurposed for irrigation and land flushing, creating a synergistic system that mitigates ecological risks and bolsters aquatic resilience. This innovative system has recently been recognized and included in the Global Network of UNESCO Ecohydrology Demonstration Sites for 2024, marking a significant achievement in the field of ecohydrology. Group photo of participants Picture wastewater recycling system for wetlands development 59 Launching Ceremony of Technical Reports The Drainage and Reclamation Institute of Pakistan (DRIP), a key unit of the Pakistan Council of Research in Water