educated mothers are highly influential. In the end Policy Recommendations has been given which are rational to be incorporated in polices for Policy Makers. Key Words: Water, Sanitation, Diarrhoea, Communicable disease and Childhood. Introduction Lack of Proper sanitation & Safe drinking water has been and endures to be a source of most important issue around the globe due to high rates of mortality and morbidity associated with them. Children are most vulnerable, especially children those under the five years of age. Majority of cases of mortality and morbidity are in children. According to UNICEF report (2008) approximately 1.8 million people die annually and 4 billion cases are associated from water-related diseases which are becoming a major root of mortality and morbidity across the globe. In developing countries, 99.8% of such deaths occur out of which 90% are children under the age of five. Moreover, 88% of this 99.8% are illnesses are directly linked with insufficient supply of water, poor water sanitation and hygiene. Due to immense uses of water for many purposes, such as agricultural and industrial activities, have hugely impacted the quality and quantity of water resources, leads to increase water related diseases and its hazardous effects. This Scenario stands worst in third world countries. The mortality and morbidity due to poor quality drinking water and sanitation are higher among these underdeveloped and developing countries. It causes both human and economic loss for these third world countries. The water resource issues and poor quality of drinking water are the main concerns in developing countries. Montgomery and Elimelech (2007) indicated that poor sanitation and quality of drinking water has become major cause of spreading water borne diseases including dysentery, cholera, giardiasis, and hepatitis A and E etc. As a developing country, Pakistan also deprived of improved sanitation and Safe drinking water. In Pakistan, poor hygienic habits, improved sanitation, and Safe drinking water are associated with a number of water borne diseases among the people. Like other countries, in Pakistan children are the most affected ones from such diseases and mortality resulting from them. As according to government of Pakistan Economic survey (2008) in Pakistan nearly 50 million individuals lack availability of Safe drinking water. Only 42% people have access to sanitation services out of which 65% are in urban areas and 30% are in rural areas. In urban areas, about 30% people live in slums. In urban areas, about 30%