of 31% in 2015 and 39% in 2020. The NWP is a national framework within which the provinces are trying to develop their own policies, regulations and master plans for sustainable management of water resources. PCRWR on the direction of the Federal government is Financial Implications Water quality treatment Bottled water Improved water source Waterborne Disease treatment costs Loss of work academic and working days (Productivity) 72 also contributing in developing a five-year National Groundwater Management Plan to provide a framework for coordination among groundwater stakeholders across Pakistan. Approval and implementation of this plan would also help to control the factors responsible for increased groundwater contamination. 4.7.1 National Drinking Water Policy, 2009 The National Drinking Water Policy (NDWP) was approved in 2009. According to the NDWP, provision of safe drinking water is a fundamental human right and the responsibility of the state. The main objective of the policy is to provide adequate quantity of safe water to the entire population at an affordable cost and in an equitable, efficient and sustainable manner by 2025. The policy has also provided guidelines for the protection and conservation of water resources, appropriate water treatment technologies and standardization, capacity building, public awareness, legislation etc. 4.7.2 Punjab Water Policy (2018) The overall objective of Punjab's Water Policy is to provide clear policy directions to the Government of Punjab on the sustainable management and development of water sector. The Chapter 4 (Clause 4.1: Drinking Water) of the policy emphasizes that drinking water is the top most priority of this policy with specific objective to improve water quality of surface and groundwater through control of pollutants discharge from agriculture, industrial, municipal wastes and over abstraction of groundwater near saline groundwater zones. In this connection, Punjab Water Act (2019) is also instrumental to ensure the implementation of Provincial Water Policy. An improvement of 14% in the quality of water supply (49% safe water in 2020 vs. 35% in 2015) depicts the implementation status of Punjab Water Policy. The Government of Punjab needs to further strengthen its efforts following the policy guidelines and through enforcement of clauses of Punjab Water Act across the province. Punjab is also developing a provincial Groundwater Management Plan which is also expected to be instrumental in controlling the groundwater contamination. Sustainable Development Goals 2015–2030 Goal 6: Ensure the availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all. Target 6.1: By 2030, achieve universal