Fahim Jahangir Khan and Yaser Javed wrote about the Provision of safe drinking water & adequate sanitation in the Pakistan. The Provision of safe drinking water, adequate sanitation and personal hygiene are important to control trachoma, malaria, diarrhoea, hepatitis A & hepatitis B, morbidity, morbidity levels and the sustainable environmental condition. As reported by MICS Balochistan in 2004, about 38.5 million people of Pakistan don‟t have safe drinking water and 50.7 million are lacking with proper sanitation in the country. The finding of the research indicates that in Pakistan the regional and/or national targets, there are direct relationship exists between the health, nutrition, water sanitation, human well-being and natural environment. Worldwide due to water related illness every day about 14000 to 30000 individual frequently children die (IHRO, 2007) it is reported that approximately there is more than 5 million Water borne disease related mortalities per year. About 3.7% of the health problems and 3.1% of the deaths annually across the globe which is associated with unsafe drinking water, sanitation and hygiene related concerns. As viewed by Kemp et al. (2010) different progressive actions including mining, pose numerous risks to human rights for the availability of safe drinking water. Majority of universal frameworks, availability of safe drinking water is the basic human right. On the other hand, safe water requirements can be assured through international and antiprivatization movements for access to safe drinking water. Methodology This study revolves around the impacts of environmental, demographic, social and economic factors on human health outcomes. Following figure, presenting the pathways of communicable diseases, has developed from two model i.e. model of Exposures and health outcomes are complicated by interrelated factors called MEME studied by Montgomery et al., (2007) and model of transmission pathways of fecal-oral diseases studied by Prüss et al., (2002) as discussed in literature above Figure: 1. Model of Pathways of communicable diseases stimulated by background population characteristics and household environmental factors Population characteristics motivate the conditions that cause diarrhoea which is considered as an outcome from poor water and sanitation conditions. Water borne sewerage and nonimproves latrines (non-recycling or unpaved lines etc.) caused by human disposal of wastes majorly excreta put their impression directly to the sources of surface and ground water. However, sources of surface and ground water impress each other with their direct effects on sources of drinking water, respectively. Surface water on contamination cause communicable diseases directly or