life. However, since the dawn of Fizzah Iftikhar Allawala, Salik Javed Barry, and Muhammad Sameer Kayani <sameer.kayani5@ hotmail.com> are affiliated with Institute of Business Administration (IBA), Karachi. Authors’ Note: First and foremost, we would like to thank our research supervisor, Dr Heman Das Lohano. Without his assistance and dedicated involvement in every step throughout the process, this research would have never been accomplished. From conceptual framework and economic modelling to data analysis, the guidance provided by Dr Heman has been a tremendous learning opportunity for us. We would also like to thank the numerous organisations and institutions whose databases and resources have been utilised throughout the research process to accomplish the concerned objectives. Finally, we would also like to express our gratitude towards all the friends and family members whose contribution of their time, effort, guidance and opinion have assisted us in refining the results and completion of this study. 918 Allawala, Barry, and Kayani the Industrial Revolution, the global urbanisation coupled with the population boom has resulted in an unprecedented stress on the scarce resources available. One significant consequence of the aforementioned phenomenon is the consistent increase in the environmental externalities owing to anthropogenic activities. According to the World Health Organisation, in terms of deaths per year, 58 percent of the total DALY global burden of disease (842,000 deaths) can be attributed to unsafe drinking water, inadequate sanitation, and poor hygiene. A standard measure of unsafe water provision and inadequate sanitation is the incidence and prevalence of diarrheal diseases. These alone amounts to an estimated 3.6 percent of the total DALY global burden of disease and resulting in mortality estimates of 1.5 million people every year.1 Pakistan is a developing country with an average annual income of $1275 and 64 percent of its population lives in rural areas.2 Taking into account the situation in Pakistan, although about 93.7 percent of the household in Pakistan has access to improved water sources, 30.4 percent of the households still have no access to any kind of improved sanitation [DHS (2012-13)]. According to WHO, the mortality rate owing to diarrheal diseases almost halved between 2000 and 2015, but still resulted in 1.4 million deaths in 2015.3 Similar ranking was assigned to the distribution of causes of death in children under 5 with 11 percent of the infant mortality being attributed to the cause.4 Diarrheal diseases remain the leading causes of childhood deaths in