was the lack of baseline data and aspirational targets. The same is almost true for the SDGs, particularly Goal 6. So far the Government of Pakistan has not been able to develop baselines for all the indicators of Goal 6. The current study reveals slow paced improvements in safe water quality i.e. between 2015 and 2020 quality improved only by 7% (Figure 49). Therefore, the access to safe drinking water to 100% of the population by 2030 seems to be a huge challenge for Pakistan. The NWQMP report of 2015 (Imran et al., 2016) predicted that with safe water improvement of 31% in 2015, Pakistan would reach hardly up to 53% access to safe drinking water by 2030. Based on this, achieving SDG target 6.1 by 2030 would require speeding up the improvement by three times than that of 2015. Now with the current safe water access of 39% in 2020, only 50% of the population is projected to have safe water access by 2030 (Figure 49). To achieve 100% targeted coverage by 2030, it will require speeding up the efforts by four times the current pace. Thus, it is important to critically analyze the root causes for this slow paced improvement, redefine the priorities for the current decade and rigorously implement these redefined priorities to achieve SDG target/goal 6, to which Pakistan has committed. 68 Figure 49: Safe drinking water access based on the current pace and the projected 4.2 Water Shortage Sustainable domestic water supplies depend on the availability of reliable water resources that can be easily developed. Over abstraction of groundwater leading to groundwater depletion is a growing concern, exacerbated by climate change, population growth and urbanization. As a result, groundwater sources across the country are increasingly being polluted through intensive agriculture, industry and poor sanitation. This is clearly evident by the lower level of improvement in microbial and chemical contaminations as shown in this report. 4.3 Ineffectiveness of Existing Water Supply Model The provision of safe drinking water is the responsibility of the state as per the constitution of Islamic Republic of Pakistan. However, after 18th amendment in the constitution, provision of safe drinking water falls within the domain of the provincial governments. Thus, the responsibility sets on the district government organizations such as Tehsil Municipal Authority (TMA), Water and Sanitation Agency (WASA), Public Health Engineering Department (PHED) etc. Provincial and Local governments have struggled to