from those taps, which were leaking between the spindle and gland to avoid outside contamination. The type-A samples were transported to the laboratory under controlled temperature (2 and 8 oC) in a properly lightproof and disinfected insulated box. Water samples containing traces of 7 chlorine were treated with sodium thiosulfate to neutralize any chlorine present, incase chlorine is not neutralized, microbes may be killed during transit and an erroneous result will be obtained. The time between sample collection and analysis did not exceed 6 hours. All samples were accompanied by an appropriate samples collection form. Field observations and information regarding each sample (such as sample types, sample ID, sample code given to the sample, GPS reading, date and time of sample collection, physical conditions like water-table depth etc.) were recorded on the sample collection proforma. Following procedures and precautionary measures were followed while collecting samples from different water sources. 2.3.1 Tap Un-rusted taps were selected for collection of water samples. These taps were properly disinfected and allowed to flow for a few minutes before collecting the sample. 2.3.2 Tubewell The water samples from tube wells were collected after allowing them to flow for at least 10 minutes to get representative sample of the groundwater. The depths of groundwater level were also recorded and the location of the tubewell was properly marked on the topographic survey sheet. 2.3.3 Distribution Network The water samples from the distribution network were collected from the source of supply (as closely as possible) to minimize the effects of pollution in the distribution system and from point of use (PoU) to evaluate the actual quality of water being used. All water sample containers were filled slowly to avoid turbulence and air bubbles after flushing the system for sufficient time. 2.3.4 Hand Pump/Dug Well Water samples were collected from hand pumps or dug wells after purging the hand pump or well. The purging was carried out by making one stroke for every foot of depth (A hand pump or dug well having 30 feet of depth, needs 30 strokes for its purging). 2.3.5 Stream Water samples were collected from the center by standing in the middle of the stream. Care was taken to keep the bottle well above the bed of the stream to avoid unwanted bed material going into the sample. 8 2.3.6 Spring Water Water samples were collected directly from the spring in sterilized sampling bottles