Risk Single chemical plus microbial contamination Health hazardous Double and intensive treatment is required 4 Medium Risk Double chemical contamination Health hazardous Intensive chemical treatment is required 5 High Risk Multiple chemical contamination and microbial contamination Health hazardous Intensive chemical treatment is required 6 High Risk Table 8: Risk ranges for potential contamination Sr. No. Risk Risk Range 1 Low 1-2 2 Medium 3-4 3 High 5-6 2.8 Hydro-geochemical Facies The hydro-chemical data is subjected to various conventional graphical plots to understand and identify the dominant ionic constituents and water types in the aquifer of the monitoring cities. The water quality data of 2015 was assessed by using Piper diagrams to represent the geochemical behavior of water. Piper diagram is a multifaceted plot where in milliequivalents percentage concentrations of major cations (Calcium, Magnesium, Sodium and Potassium) and anions (Bicarbonate, Sulphate, and Chloride) are plotted in two triangular fields, which were then projected further into the central diamond field (Piper, 1944). In contrast, Durov diagram is a composite plot consisting of 2 ternary diagrams where the milliequivalents percentages of the cations of interest were plotted against that of anions of interest; sides form a central rectangular, binary plot of total cations vs. total anions concentrations (Durov, 1948). In this study Durov Diagrams plotted in AquaChem 10.0 also define the hydro-chemical processes involved along with water type. 15 The water type of a given water source is influenced by the interaction of the water with the minerals that it has been in contact with. These types of interactions include precipitation, dissolution, ion exchange, geological structure and the mineralogy of watershed/aquifer. In AquaChem 10.0, the water type is determined by calculating the percent contribution of each cation and anion to the total concentration of ions in solution on equivalents per liter basis. The water type can be defined as a "short'" water type or a "long" water type. The "short" water type is calculated by concatenating the cation and anion with the highest equivalent concentrations. The "long" water type is calculated by concatenating cations and anions with concentrations above a specified percent contribution threshold. The threshold for determining if an ion is “major” is normally taken as 10%. In some countries a threshold of 12.5% is more common. The higher the threshold, the smaller number of parameters may exceed this threshold level. Usually, only major ions (Sodium, Calcium, Magnesium, Bicarbonate, Sulphate, and Chloride)