of water in Sindh and Punjab are unsafe14. Also, the provinces are affected by groundwater contamination. A survey conducted by PCRWR tracked contamination in majority of groundwater in Quetta, where 81 percent of water samples got bacteria and 6 percent of water samples had turbidity, which makes it unfit for human consumption. Safe drinking water is not available to 84 percent15 of the population. In rural areas there are private solutions such as tube-wells, dug-wells. The shortfall is met by market solutions including water tankers and bottled water. Private sector has its own set of issues pertaining to quality and pricing. Some bottled companies are operating without registration with Pakistan Standard and Quality Control Authority (PSQCA), which was established to protect consumers against unsafe drinking water. The authority is primarily responsible for fostering and promoting standards and conformity assessment, ensuring the health and safety of the public, protecting the consumers, facilitating domestic and international trade16. However, PSQCA seems to lack enforcement remedies, when some manufacturers are “placing the PSQCA logo on their labels without actually registering their products with the organization”17. PCRWR issues a quarterly report on water quality of bottled water. As per the latest report of July-September 2018, 8 percent of the bottled water is unsafe. This urges the need for further focus on quality control and further enforcement remedies for PCRWR to protect the consumers’ trust on bottle water products. 1469 % of a total of 1495 samples from Punjab are unsafe, while a total of 68% of 1364 samples collected in Sindh are unsafe. 15 PCRWR (2017). Provision of Safe Drinking Water. Islamabad: Pakistan Council for Research in Water Resources (PCRWR). 16 PSQCA, 2018 17 Maker, 2017 Policy Brief Addressing The Drinking Water Challenge in Pakistan CRCP Publications Page | 5 C. Causes for the Challenges Pertaining to Quality and Access Over-Consumption by Agriculture Sector The agricultural sector uses 90 percent of the total freshwater resources, while contributing to 21 percent in the GDP18. This enormous consumption will continue if efficient water management is not incentivized and priced according to the crop return or actual consumption. The agricultural sector must be priced on the basis of scale and purpose. The State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) also believes that it is unproductive for Pakistan if 90 percent of its water is consumed by the agricultural sector and it critiqued this consumption pattern as “inefficient redistribution”19. Increase in