threshold. The threshold for determining if an ion is “major” is normally taken as 10%. In some countries a threshold of 12.5% is more common. The higher the threshold, the smaller number of parameters may exceed this threshold level. Usually, only major ions (Sodium, Calcium, Magnesium, Bicarbonate, Sulphate, and Chloride) will have a concentration that allows them to exceed the defined threshold (Waterloo Hydrogeologic, 2020). 16 17 Chapter 3: Results and Discussion This chapter pertains to the water quality results and related situation analysis of 29 major cities of Pakistan, region and city wise description of potential contaminants exceeding the National Drinking Water Quality Standards (NDWQS), trend analysis over the time (2002-20), Risk maps showing health impacts of hazordeous contaminants and Durov diagrams indicating groundwater type. Location wise detailed water quality profile of 435 monitored sources can be seen at Annexures 1 to 29. 3.1 Islamabad Capital Territory (ICT) Water supplies of Islamabad are mostly supplemented by groundwater through more than 290 tubewells. Twenty four fixed locations were monitored for the water quality of city. In total, (29%) sources were found contaminated and unfit for the drinking purpose mainly due to bacteria and Iron (Fe) as shown in Table 9. Table 9: The level of major parameters exceeding the NDWQS in Islamabad City Sr. # Water Quality Parameter Unit Total No. of Samples Analyzed Number of Contaminated Samples %age of Contaminated Samples 1 Iron (Fe) mg/l 24 04 17 2 Total Coliforms CFU/100 ml 24 06 25 3 E. coli CFU/100 ml 24 03 13 In Islamabad, the main sources of domestic water supply are, the reservoirs built at Simly and Khanpur, tube wells and few springs located at Saidpur, Nurpur and Shahdra-hills. About 1.12 million inhabitants of the city receive some or all of their drinking water from these water sources. The conventional treatment methods such as coagulation, flocculation, sedimentation, filtration and chlorination are used for the treatment of Simly and Khanpur reservoir’s water to make it potable. The level of microbial contamination (25%) in city raises the questions on the sustainable supply of safe drinking water from these filtration plants. Further, the presence of fecal contamination indicated by the presence of E-coli in 13% of the sources also signposts the unsafe disposal of domestic sewage. Time trend analysis by comparing the 2020 data with previous monitoring studies (2002-2015) reveals an improvement in safe water access from 32% to