the economic theory. The confirmation of the endogenous nature of the variable reinforces the reliability of the results while also conforming to the theoretical framework. 932 Allawala, Barry, and Kayani 4.3. Limitations of the Study Although this study is the first to be employed in Pakistan to the best of our knowledge, it also exhibits many limitations that the future researchers can improve upon. The first such shortcoming is that the study utilises indirect exposure to contaminants (unimproved water source) instead of the direct contamination source, which drastically reduces the link between the diarrheal disease and the contaminant. However, this can be remedied by epidemiological studies at the site of the data collection. This will result in a better classification of the water sources as opposed to the one already in use. Similarly, the lack of information on the exact wage of the household, price of diarrheal treatment, price of water treatment and the days spent sick result in deviation from the pure form of the household health-production function. One step in this direction is the extension of DHS to inquire regarding the wages of the households and the exact cost of treatment to recover from diarrheal diseases. These values can be combined with the results of the study to provide an estimate of the wages lost and the cost of defensive behaviour by the household, which will give us a lower bound of the cost of diarrheal illness in the household. This cost can be used by policy-makers to value programs being implemented to tackle diarrheal illnesses across Pakistan. Moreover, the availability of time-series data along with cross-sectional will allow us to model the dynamics of the disease and the household behaviour in real time. Table 5 Diagnostic Tests Endogeneity Tests Coefficient p-value Durbin score 50.2549 0.000 Wu-Hausman 50.4214 0.000 5. CONCLUSION This study finds that household exhibiting defensive behaviour, i.e. treating water prior to drinking, are 31.5 percent less likely to report any cases of diarrheal diseases in the household as opposed to those not employing any such method. As discussed before, diarrheal illness has proven to be a significant contributor to the burden of disease among Pakistani population and is a primary reason for infant mortality in the country. Not only does it pose a threat to the health of the children, it also imposes considerable monetary and cognitive burden. The result of the study calls for