the National Health Vision 2016 – 2025, adapt best practices for vaccine preventable diseases surveillance and addressing equity for the access and availability of vaccines in preventing those VPDs especially for the marginalized and hard-toreach communities. 7. Immunization services delivery and quality: The availability of vaccination will be enhanced and maintained through the required regulatory mechanisms to ensure the quality of vaccines and sufficient and qualified human resource at all levels addressing the supply side of vaccination. 1 Wallace AS, Ryman TK, Dietz V. Experiences Integrating Delivery of Maternal and Child Health Services With Childhood Immunization Programs: Systematic Review Update. J Infect Dis [Internet]. 2012 Mar 1;205(suppl_1):S6–19. Available from: https://doi.org/10.1093/infdis/jir778 NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 15 8. Immunization safety and monitoring: Immunization services should not only be of highest possible quality but also safest possible. This shall be maintained through consistent implementation and monitoring and evaluation of the prescribed safety standards for immunization services (as per prescribed safety standards under this policy) 9. Public Health and clinical evidence base: Decision making for any changes and adoption for immunization schedules, introducing new vaccines and immunization strategies will be guided by high-quality evidence in respective areas. 10. Sustainability: EPI Pakistan considers sustainability a core component to ensure adequate resources to cover the cost of vaccines. As a country, Pakistan encourages and sensitize the provinces and federating areas mobilize resources to share the cost by their own resources. In relation to Gavi supported vaccines, as per GAVI vaccine policy, the country will phase out from the support to self-financing in phases phase I & II, accelerated phase and transition phase based on GNI of the country. With Gavi supported vaccines, the country would have to follow GAVI vaccine policy in terms of the country co-financing share in the coming years. Point in time the country is at preparatory transition phase which would lead to the accelerated phase and then ultimate graduation from GAVI support which would result in additional financial resources to sustain the vaccine availability which are procured as country co-financing share. Additionally, community and private sector engagement, and strengthening of primary health care will further ensure sustainability. 11. Use of technology and innovations: eHealth is an emerging technology in the field of health. Improving immunization coverage and increasing demand has been tested and proven effective in various settings especially the low-income countries. These strategies and interventions will be given priority and