planning with the provinces and the development of district improvement plans. From September to December, three large-scale vaccination campaigns were held during a 4-month period to build a defense against virus spread. The roadmapʼs third phase began in January 2025. To complete the “2-4-6 Roadmap”, the Programme has planned additional campaigns over a period of six months to raise immunity during the low poliovirus transmission season, while conducting targeted interventions in virus hideouts to advance towards the interruption of the transmission within 2025. WHO also partnered with the Polio Programme to establish 934 additional acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) reporting sites – which contributed to increasing AFP reporting by 12% – and nine environmental surveillance sites in four more districts. Additionally, WHO-led Polio Programme teams conducted comprehensive epidemiological investigations to identify potential blind spots with undetected circulation and established 81 sites to screen and monitor patients with primary immunodeficiency disorders and detect poliovirus. Challenges persisted throughout 2024, including missed children, security-related access issues, low vaccination coverages, and population movement. The situation was particularly challenging in southern Khyber Pakhtunkhwaʼs endemic districts, where campaigns were often staggered or implemented with alterations to the recommended 3+2-day campaign duration strategy. WHO supported the Polio Programme in reaching children in these areas through alternate vaccination strategies and worked with national and local authorities to ensure consistent access. These eﬀorts yielded results in the second half of 2024, when all campaigns were harmonized throughout the country – i.e. held without any alterations to the planned dates. With support from WHO, Pakistan is moving forward with full determination to end the global threat of polio and secure a healthier future for every child, leaving no one behind. The following chapters outline the main activities and impact of WHO interventions in support of the Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme during 2024. Dr Zainul Abedin Khan WHO Pakistan Polio Coordinator July 2020-March 2025 Polio vaccines work and have saved millions of lives. However, the resurgence of wild polio in Pakistan in 2024 was a stark reminder that our fight is not yet over. We need to intensify the response and run together the last mile to end the global threat of polio, in Pakistan and across the world. Despite challenges, WHO-led teams supporting the Polio Programme remained resilient to continue protecting millions of children from paralytic polio. 06 WHO continued to support the government-led Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme in 2024, mobilizing