Pakistan: WHO and UNICEF estimates of immunization coverage: 2023 revision July 2, 2024; page 1 WHO and UNICEF estimates of national immunization coverage next revision available July 15, 2025 data received as of June 27, 2024 Pakistan: WHO and UNICEF estimates of immunization coverage: 2023 revision BACKGROUND NOTE: Each year WHO and UNICEF jointly review reports submitted by Member States regarding national immunization coverage, ﬁnalized survey reports as well as data from published and grey literature. Based on these data, with due consideration to potential biases and the views of local experts, WHO and UNICEF attempt to distinguish between situations where available empirical data accurately reﬂect immunization system performance and those where the data are likely compromised and present a misleading view of coverage. WHO and UNICEF estimates are country-speciﬁc; that is to say, each country’s data are reviewed individually, and data are not borrowed from other countries in the absence of data. Estimates are not based on ad hoc adjustments to reported data; in some instances empirical data are available from a single source, usually the nationally reported coverage data. In cases where no data are available for a given country/vaccine/year combination, data are considered from earlier and later years and interpolated to estimate coverage for the missing year(s). In cases where data sources are mixed and show large variation, an attempt is made to identify the most likely estimate with consideration of the possible biases in available data. For methods see: *Burton et al. 2009. Bull World Health Organ. *Burton et al. 2012. PLoS One. *Danovaro-Holliday et al. 2021. Gates Open Res. DATA SOURCES. ADMINISTRATIVE coverage: Reported by national authorities and based on aggregated administrative reports from health service providers on the number of vaccinations administered during a given period (numerator data) and reported target population data (denominator data). May be biased by inaccurate numerator and/or denominator data. OFFICIAL coverage: Estimated coverage reported by national authorities that reﬂects their assessment of the most likely coverage based on any combination of administrative coverage, survey-based estimates or other data sources or adjustments. Approaches to determine OFFICIAL coverage may diﬀer across countries. SURVEY coverage: Based on estimated coverage from population-based household surveys among children aged 12-23 or 24-35 months following a review of survey methods and results. Information is based on the combination of vaccination history from documented evidence or caregiver recall. Survey results are considered for the appropriate birth cohort