eliminate/ control Measles, Rubella and MNTe, and eliminate/control other vaccine-preventable diseases. 3.1.6 Assist the international and national community in identifying and developing support for new disease control programs when appropriate intervention tools, such as new vaccines, become available. 3.1.7 Assist the government in resource mobilization and encourage government in appropriate resource allocation for routine and supplementary immunization activities. 3.1.8 Advise the government in specific areas related to EPI and supplemental immunization activities for polio eradication, measles and neonatal tetanus elimination where partner agencies have specialized expertise. The committee will also advise the government in case of emergency vaccination as the need arises 3.1.9 Review progress towards polio eradication, measles and neonatal elimination, and improving Routine Immunization with suggested plans for future 3.2 Role and Functions of National Immunization Technical Advisory Group (NITAG) 3.2.1 The purpose of the NITAG is to guide policy makers in the M/o NHSR&C and EPI Program of Pakistan to make evidence-based immunization related policy decisions. The NITAG shall do policy analysis and strategy formulation for control, elimination and eradication of VPDs diseases through immunization taking in consideration of latest scientific development in the relevant field. 3.2.2 The NITAG shall be formed by the executive order of the Federal Secretary (Health) on the basis of proposal from Federal Directorate of Immunization. Members should be nominated from the following field of expertise from local experts: pediatrics, infectious disease epidemiology, immunology, clinical research, virology, microbiology, health economics and social sciences. The NITAG shall have a total of maximum 15 members. The NITAG will convene meetings at least twice a year. If necessary, a meeting can be convened at any earlier date. NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 21 3.2.3 The NITAG will assist the M/o NHSR&C, FDI, Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP) and Inter-agency Coordination Committee (ICC) by providing evidence-based policy direction on various immunization related issues as required and desired. e.g., formulation of immunization policy and strategies for routine and supplementary immunization activities, introduction of new vaccine in routine EPI schedule, evaluation of new immunization technologies, vaccine quality and safety, immunization schedule, advocacy for immunization, vaccine handling and storage at public and private sector, licensing of new vaccine for public and private sector use, commissioning of new research, assessments/evaluations to guide policies. 3.2.4 The NITAG will also provide special policy and strategy direction to the M/o NHSR&C in any emergency (e.g., earthquake, flood etc.) for any particular population