countries. SURVEY coverage: Based on estimated coverage from population-based household surveys among children aged 12-23 or 24-35 months following a review of survey methods and results. Information is based on the combination of vaccination history from documented evidence or caregiver recall. Survey results are considered for the appropriate birth cohort based on data collection period. ABBREVIATIONS BCG: percentage of births who received one dose of Bacillus Calmette Guerin vaccine. DTP1 / DTP3: percentage of surviving infants who received the 1st / 3rd dose, respectively, of diphtheria and tetanus toxoid with pertussis containing vaccine. Pol3: percentage of surviving infants who received the 3rd dose of polio containing vaccine. May be either oral or inactivated polio vaccine. IPV1: percentage of surviving infants who received at least one dose of inactivated polio vaccine. In countries utilizing an immunization schedule recommending either (i) a primary series of three doses of oral polio vaccine (OPV) plus at least one dose of IPV where OPV is included in routine immunization and/or campaign or (ii) a sequential schedule of IPV followed by OPV, WHO and UNICEF estimates for IPV1 reﬂect coverage with at least one routine dose of IPV among infants <1 year of age. For countries utilizing IPV containing vaccine only, i.e., no recommended dose of OPV, WHO and UNICEF estimate for IPV1 corresponds to coverage for the 1st dose of IPV. Production of IPV coverage estimates, which begins in 2015, results in no change of the estimated coverage levels for the 3rd dose of polio (Pol3). For countries recommending routine immunization with a primary series of three doses of IPV alone, WHO and UNICEF estimated Pol3 coverage is equivalent to estimated coverage with three doses of IPV. For countries with a sequential schedule, estimated Pol3 coverage is based on that for the 3rd dose of polio vaccine regardless of vaccine type. IPV2: percentage of surviving infants who received a 2nd dose of inactivated polio vaccine. IPV2 coverage estimates produced for OPV using countries. MCV1: percentage of surviving infants who received the 1st dose of measles containing vaccine. In countries where the national schedule recommends the 1st dose of MCV at 12 months or later based on the epidemiology of disease in the country, coverage estimates reﬂect the percentage of children who received the 1st dose of MCV as recommended. MCV2: percentage of children who received the 2nd dose of measles containing vaccine according to the