from existing sources including the Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS). The next chapter documents the significant progress made in immunization coverage over time, followed by a regional comparison of immunization status in South Asia to highlight where Pakistan stands. The report concludes with some programmatic recommendations. 3 Objectives of the report Data sources This report is based on secondary analysis of survey data including the TPVICS 2021 and PDHS. Demographic Health Surveys are standard internationally accepted surveys administered in nearly 90 countries across the world to collect information on selected health, nutrition, and population outcomes. The cross-sectional TPVICS survey was carried out on children aged 12–23 months with a sample larger than that used for PDHS 2018. TPVICS covered almost 98,000 children, whereas PDHS 2018 covered 2,463 children of 12–23 months. The Pakistan Bureau of Statistics (PBS) was consulted for finalizing the sampling frame of the survey. Data was collected over the period from September 2020, starting with Punjab, and ending in January 2021 with Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP). The survey covered 97,760 children across the country, of whom 53,063 were male and 44,697 female. For the purposes of TPVICS, a fully immunized child is defined as one who has completed all immunizations starting with BCG at birth up to the first dose of measles administered at 9 months of age, as per EPI schedule, except for rotavirus vaccine (see Table 1). Like the PDHS, the TPVICS included background characteristics of the child's household, parents' level of educational attainment, and wealth. A household comprises either one person living alone or a group of people living at the same address, who may or may not be related, with common housekeeping, who either share at least one meal a day or share common living accommodation (that is, a living room or sitting room). .. Parental education level is classified into four categories: none (not attended formal schooling), primary education (1–5 years of formal education), middle (6–8 years of formal education), secondary (9–10 years), and higher (11 years or more). Households are divided into five categories (poorest, poor, middle, rich, and richest) of equal size (that is, quintiles each with 20% of the population) using the number and types of consumer goods they own, ranging from a television to a bicycle or car, and housing characteristics such as source of drinking water, toilet facilities, and flooring materials. For the purpose of the TPVICS,