adverse events or lessons-learnt for future reference. 4.4.3 The EPI will implement targeted campaigns pertinent to the context of outbreak response or in case of a disaster rendering populations internally displaced. 4.5 Immunization in Schools 4.5.1 All public and private sector schools shall be eligible for campaigns vaccination against VPDs. The schools will be bound to share vaccination data of the enrolled children. 4.5.2 The schools should check the vaccination status of the children at the time of admission and will report to the relevant health (EPI) and district authorities including booster doses wherever applicable. 4.5.3 The communication part of the EPI will ensure that all the schools have information and education materials for immunization including information on the immunization schedule, VPDs being prevented and controlled by the routine immunization and campaign. 4.6 Communication, Demand Generation, Advocacy, Equity and Universality 4.6.1 The EPI through its partners and provincial/ area EPIs will update and implement communication strategy. 4.6.2 The communication strategy will not only be limited to the clients of the EPI program, but it will also engage mass media, social media, educational departments, inter-ministerial coordination mechanisms and local legislatures and parliamentarians. 4.6.3 All local strategies and community-based initiatives using different communication for development approaches will be developed in order to increase knowledge and demand for immunization services for the missed-out and unreached population subgroups. 4.6.4 The EPI will engage community, religious leaders, local influencers, philanthropists, mothers/ caregivers and head of a family to persuade and convince them to extend their support for reaching the target population and completion of immunization adopting improved interpersonal communication skills. 4.6.5 Communication strategies will be periodically updated based on evidence gathered from social research. 4.6.6 The EPI will ensure that service providers in public and private sectors protect and promote client rights by: 4.6.6.1 Ensuring access to immunization regardless of religious belief, class, color, creed, geographic location, gender, income level, or ethnic background. NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 26 4.6.6.2 Ensuring all ethical principles are followed judiciously including verbal consent from mother/ caregiver of children for vaccination. 4.6.6.3 Ensuring all clients have been provided with information of the benefits and adverse events following immunization (if any) of the vaccines given their benefits in terms of protection and verbal reminders of the next visit along with information that they will be receiving through text messages from the EPI program for their next due vaccination for compliance