©UNICEF/U.S. CDC/UNI408835/Hillier WUENIC 2023 revision, Published 15 July 2024 Pakistan WHO/UNICEF Estimates of National Immunization Coverage (WUENIC), 2023 revision Every year, WHO and UNICEF jointly review submissions from Member States on national immunization coverage, including annual administrative and official coverage, finalized survey reports and data from both published and grey literature. The data is triangulated with consideration of potential biases and local expert opinions to differentiate between accurately reflective empirical data and potentially misleading data, to assess the most likely coverage levels for each country. WHO and UNICEF produce country-specific estimates by individually reviewing each country's data without borrowing from other countries in the absence of data. These estimates are not based on ad hoc adjustments to reported data; sometimes, empirical data come from a single source, typically nationally reported coverage data. If no data are available for a specific country-vaccine-year combination, data from earlier and later years are considered and interpolated to fill in the gaps. When data sources are conflicting and show significant variations, efforts are made to determine the most likely estimate, taking into account potential biases in the available data. This slide deck presents the latest WUENIC estimates (published 15 July 2024) for Pakistan. Methods: • Burton et al. 2009. WHO and UNICEF estimates of national infant immunization coverage: methods and processes. • Burton et al. 2012. A formal representation of the WHO and UNICEF estimates of national immunization coverage: a computational logic approach. • Brown et al. 2013. An introduction to the grade of confidence used to characterize uncertainty around the WHO and UNICEF estimates of national immunization coverage. Definitions of immunization terms Vaccine coverage Percentage of infants (children under one year of age) who received certain vaccine-doses. For example, coverage of DTP3 is the percentage of infants who received all three doses of diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (DTP) vaccine. Unvaccinated An infant that did not receive the first dose of a vaccine series. The term "zero-dose“ is used to describe children unvaccinated with DTP1. Under-vaccinated An infant who received some but not all the recommended vaccine-doses in the national schedule. Vaccine-Doses • Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG): vaccine against tuberculosis • Hepatitis B birth dose, given within 24 hours after birth (HepBB) • Diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis vaccine, first dose (DTP1) and third dose (DTP3) • Hepatitis B vaccine, third dose (HepB3) • Haemophilus influenzae type B vaccine, third dose (Hib3) • Poliomyelitis vaccine, third dose