Notes: Domestic health expenditure per capita expressed in current international dollars converted by PPP conversion factor. Log of health expenditure is used in this graph. DTP3 coverage means three doses of DTP vaccines administered to children aged 12–23 months. For health expenditure, 2018 data has been used, while for DTP3 coverage, 2020 data has been used. Larger dots indicate higher DTP3 coverage 15 Afghanistan Bangladesh Bhutan India Maldives Nepal Pakistan Sri Lanka $10.00 DTP3 overage Health expenditure per capita (international US$) $20.00 $50.00 $100.00 $200.00 $500.00 $1,000.00 50 60 70 80 90 100 The previous section documented Pakistan's impressive progress in immunization coverage (a 117.6% increase in fully immunized children between 1990 and 2020). Consequently, the burden of two VPDs declined, diphtheria by 94% and measles by 88%, over the same period. Despite these improvements, wide variations remain in terms of coverage by vaccine type, socioeconomic background, demographics, as well as between and among provinces. More importantly, Pakistan's immunization coverage is low compared to other countries in the region. The burden of disease remains high, with the incidence of both diphtheria and polio in Pakistan being the second highest in 2020. More worrying still is that Pakistan is one of only two countries in the world where polio is still prevalent. When compared to countries in Eastern and Southern Asia that have a similar level of wealth, Pakistan's immunization coverage ranks very low. These facts point to the need to strengthen Pakistan's immunization program to improve the health of its children. · Prioritize lagging areas: Concerted efforts are needed to maximize the coverage in underperforming provinces and districts by increasing focus on supervision, as well as monitoring and evaluation. To target lagging areas, district-specific strategies can be developed that are better aligned with local norms and culture. Performance-based incentives for outreach workers and vaccinators could be explored to improve vaccine uptake. For hard-to-reach areas, mobile teams can be created. · Further strengthen service delivery systems: The number of vaccination sites may need to be increased to reduce waiting time, particularly in densely populated areas. The capacity of the districtbased EPI teams needs to be strengthened to improve service delivery. Training and use of information technology can enhance the capacity of the vaccinators and EPI teams. · Ensuring sustainable financing for immunization: One of the key achievements under NISP is the transfer of immunization-related budget from development partner financing to the