Surveillance Oﬀicer, Malir, Karachi Disease surveillance is a powerful tool to level the playing field, to bend the arc of our country away from poliovirus and move towards a polio-free Pakistan. As a public health worker, a polio-free Pakistan is my highest priority and a dream to realize. 6 An AFP case is considered inadequate when two stool samples, which are supposed to be taken 24 hours apart, cannot be collected within 14 days of the onset of weakness or paralysis for any reason. 13 The WHO-accredited Regional Reference Lab for Polio (RRL), housed at the National Institute of Health (NIH), Islamabad, supported poliovirus surveillance through swift and accurate testing of all stool and wastewater samples, as well as genetic sequencing and analysis, to identify genetic and geographic linkages of detected viruses. The laboratory also supported poliovirus surveillance in Afghanistan through stool sample testing and wastewater sample testing. Key highlights of the work of the laboratory during 2024 include: Testing for Pakistan and Afghanistan: The laboratory tested 55,0037 stool and 2,037 environmental samples from Pakistan, as well as 12,417 stool and 505 environmental samples from Afghanistan. Sample Monitoring: 34,828 carriers of stool samples from acute flaccid paralysis cases and 2,000 carriers of wastewater samples shipped to the lab were monitored using LogTags. Out of these, 13 sewage samples and 522 stool samples with temperature breach were recollected and tested, which confirmed one wild poliovirus type 1 (WPV1) case from Jhal Magsi, Balochistan. 3.3. WHO-accredited Regional Reference Lab for Polio With WHOʼs support, the Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme expanded its surveillance network in 2024 with the launch of nationwide surveillance for poliovirus in patients with primary immunodeficiency disorders (PID). This marked a transition from a five-year pilot study led by Aga Khan University, which aimed to identify suspected cases of primary immunodeficiency and monitor potential transmitters of the immunodeficiency-associated vaccine-derived poliovirus (iVDPV). Immunodeficiency-associated vaccine-derived polioviruses (iVDPVs) can emerge in individuals with primary immunodeficiency, due to a mutation of the virus in their intestinal tract. These persons may shed the poliovirus for long periods after receiving the oral polio vaccine, increasing risk of transmission. Therefore, for polio-free certification, countries must demonstrate comprehensive poliovirus surveillance, including acute flaccid paralysis and environmental surveillance, and surveillance among patients with PID to detect possible iVDPVs. In 2024, PID surveillance was transitioned to the WHO-supported surveillance unit at the National Emergency Operations Center (NEOC), which began the