Unreached SIAs Supplementary Immunization Activities SNIDs Subnational immunization days STPs Seasonal transit posts TAG Technical Advisory Group UC Union council VRC Voluntary Repatriation Centers WPV1 Wild poliovirus type 1 Foreword Today, wild polio survives in only two countries – Pakistan and Afghanistan. Despite challenges, combined surveillance and vaccination eﬀorts have succeeded in protecting millions of children from a lifelong paralytic disease. Since 1994, the Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme, led by the Government with support from WHO, has reduced the number of polio cases by more than 99%. WHO is proud to partner with the Government of Pakistan to run together the last mile to end the global threat of polio, protecting future generations in Pakistan and across the world. Throughout history, polio has been a much-feared disease, leaving children permanently disabled or even taking their lives. Thanks to mass vaccinations, national commitment, and the hard work of health frontliners, today, the world stands on the brink of polio eradication – an excellent example of what can be achieved when nations, governments, scientists, health practitioners, philanthropists, and citizens work together for the benefit of all. However, challenges remain when it comes to accessing and providing vaccines to children in some of the most vulnerable communities. These gaps allow the virus to survive and spread. Interrupting polio transmission in Pakistan is critical to ending polio worldwide, and WHO will remain steadfast in its support to the Government to achieve a polio-free Pakistan. In 2024, the government-led Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme demonstrated exceptional resilience in the face of a resurgence of wild poliovirus. As the Government of Pakistan revitalized polio eradication eﬀorts under the direct oversight of His Excellency, Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif, WHO remained a crucial partner. We mobilized over 14,000 WHO-associated personnel and over 412,000 vaccinators to immunize children. WHO also supported the expansion and maintenance of the largest and most sensitive poliovirus surveillance network in the world, with 12,500 acute flaccid paralysis reporting sites, 127 environmental surveillance sites, and 81 sites to screen and monitor patients with primary immunodeficiency disorders and detect poliovirus. WHO also partnered with the Polio Programme to increase routine immunization coverage through collaborative eﬀorts with the Expanded Programme on Immunization. I commend the hard work of thousands of vaccinators, WHO and partner staﬀ, campaign assessors, security personnel, and government counterparts at the national, provincial, and district levels to reach over 45 million children with the vaccine