IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 18 2.1.4.2 It would be desirable to conduct study on disease burden of new VPDs on periodic basis in order to suggest evidence-based informed decision-making for the NITAG. 2.1.4.3 For every new vaccine or new technology introduced in the program, a post introduction evaluation will be conducted through an independent third party. 2.1.4.4 The EPI shall conduct periodic immunization coverage survey through a third party on regular basis documenting impact of the immunization program ensuring quality of data and reporting. 2.1.4.5 The program shall conduct periodic consultation with Pakistan Bureau of Statistics in order to calculate province/district wise target population. Moreover, the EPI Program shall have consultation with provinces/ federating areas to assess population’s barriers and enablers (both on the demand and supply sides) to immunization accessibility and availability especially considering equity and marginalized population sub-groups. 2.1.4.6 All research, whether on a small scale or at a large scale, shall abide by ethical code of conduct, and shall get prior approval from the appropriate Institutional Review Board (IRB) under the M/o NHSR&C at the federal level and by the respective provincial IRBs. NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 19 SECTION 3 3. Governance and Coordination NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 20 The overall governance and coordination will be with the NICC, Ministry of National Health Service, Regulations and Coordination along with the provincial/ area health departments. 3.1 Role and Functions of National Interagency Coordination Committee (NICC) Membership: All governmental and non-governmental organizations (partners and donors) providing technical and financial support to immunization program. 3.1.1 Assist country in becoming self-sufficient in its immunization programs 3.1.2 Coordinate support at national level from government and partner agencies to strengthen routine immunization and supplementary immunization activities including polio eradication, measles and neonatal tetanus eliminationactivities in the country 3.1.3 Establish a forum for exchange of information and dialogue on immunization program in the country and facilitate dialogue by making data information sources readily available 3.1.4 Support M/o NHSR&C, Government of Pakistan in adopting appropriate policies, advice and tools. 3.1.5 Mobilize resources with the government, EPI partners and the NGOs to eradicate polio, eliminate/ control Measles, Rubella and MNTe, and eliminate/control other vaccine-preventable diseases. 3.1.6 Assist the international and national community in identifying and developing support for new disease control programs when appropriate intervention tools, such as new vaccines, become available. 3.1.7 Assist the government in resource mobilization and encourage government in appropriate