against vaccine-preventable diseases. To fulfill this mission, the Federal Directorate of Immunization with partner organizations has developed an immunization policy document, which will guide the program and contribute to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Immunization Agenda (IA2030). It is more important than ever to initiate progressive change and build a society where vaccination services are utilized optimally, and vaccination processes are implemented in compliance with international norms. I am optimistic this National Policy document will serve as an effective roadmap for the planning and implementing of all operational and communication activities. The technical assistance provided by partner organizations in developing the National Immunization Policy is highly appreciated. NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 7 Message by the Secretary Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination Aamir Ashraf Khawaja It is a proud moment when we present this important policy document that gives a basis for vaccination processes based on evidence and international standards. We see high level of commitment at the federal and provincial levels, and also among national and international partners to enhance immunization coverage of vaccine preventable diseases. It is manifested from the National Immunization Policy that there is a major opportunity to use evidence-based vaccination practices in the country and to allow vaccine preventable disease eradication and elimination targets to be achieved. It is designed to provide a technically sound basis for vaccination procedures according to proven international standards and norms. Therefore, it is very crucial to reorient all immunization services in the country based on the policies, strategies, norms and guidelines incorporated in the immunization policy. I would like to acknowledge the technical assistance provided by partners in the development of National Immunization Policy 2022. NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 8 Message by The Director General Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination Dr. Rana Muhammad Safdar The vision of EPI is to improve the health of our children by eradicating and controlling vaccine preventable diseases. Vaccination is one of the most successful and cost-effective public health interventions in history as exemplified by the eradication of smallpox, significant lower prevalence of poliomyelitis and the dramatic reduction in morbidity and mortality from vaccine preventable diseases. Recognizing these achievements, Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination has revised this policy document to integrate all current and evidence-based vaccination practices. The aim is to standardize practices and opportunities for vaccination services. The National Immunization