from at least one source; [R-], [D-], [S-]; challenge the estimate. In all cases these estimates should be used with caution and should be assessed in light of the objective for which they are being used. Description: 2023: Estimate informed by reported data. Oﬃcial estimates based on adjusted data using the 2022 Third Party Veriﬁcation of Immunization Coverage Survey. Estimate challenged by: D2022: Estimate informed by reported data. Oﬃcial estimates based on adjusted data using the 2022 Third Party Veriﬁcation of Immunization Coverage Survey. Estimate challenged by: D2021: Estimate informed by reported data. Oﬃcial estimates based on adjusted data using the 2021 Third Party Veriﬁcation of Immunization Coverage Survey. GoC=R+ S+ D+ 2020: Estimate informed by reported data supported by survey. Survey evidence of 84 percent based on 1 survey(s). Oﬃcial estimates for 2019 and 2020 based on the results of Third Party Veriﬁcation of Immunization Coverage Survey (TPVICS), a large vaccination coverage survey conducted in early 2021. Monthly coverage data showed a signiﬁcant decline in coverage from March to May 2020 followed by increases as a result of intensive catch-up vaccination activities. Estimate challenged by: D2019: Estimate informed by reported data supported by survey. Survey evidence of 86 percent based on 1 survey(s). Programme reports a nine percent increase in the target population from 2018 to 2019 which may be related to a transition towards data from the 2017 census results. Census derived age-speciﬁc results were not available at the time of reporting. Estimate challenged by: D2018: Estimate based on reported data during period of introduction. Reported data excluded. As the reported number of doses administered increased from 2017 to 2018, observed declines in reported coverage may be artiﬁcial and the result of a larger year-to-year increase in the target population that observed in prior years. GoC=Assigned by working group. Consistency across vaccines in presence of no accepted empirical data. 2017: Rotavirus vaccine was introduced in 2017. Programme reports 24 percent coverage achieved in 51 percent of the national target population. Estimate is based on annualized coverage achieved in the national target population. Estimates exceptionally based on administrative coverage as it was an introduction year and no other data was available. The oﬃcial estimates for Pakistan were determined through an exercise conducted with technical assistance from WHO and UNICEF in consultation with all provinces and areas using locally available survey data, data quality assessment results, administrative reports and data