training for frontline workers. In parallel, content on gender sensitivity and how to maintain a respectful workplace has also been included in the technical training booklet prepared for community-based vaccinators. In addition, 400,000 brochures promoting a respectful workplace were distributed nationwide among frontline vaccinators. Implementation of one of the recommendations that came out of listening sessions with frontline workers with WHO distributing around 60,000 flasks and umbrellas to frontline workers to protect them from harsh weather while they work. The WHO-led operations team at NEOC collaborated with the NEOC Gender Working Group to develop comprehensive safety guidelines for frontline workers, create ID cards, and establish a clear overview of Team Support Centers where these vaccinators work. To eﬀectively tackle workplace safety concerns, especially those impacting female health workers, the Gender Working Group has successfully developed an Anti-Harassment Policy which firmly aligns with the national anti-harassment law and has been endorsed by the NEOC and the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination. Implementation is expected to begin in 2025. Chapter 4: Gender in WHO PEI Working in the Polio Programme empowers women, giving them confidence and the ability to support their families financially. Some of our vaccinators are the primary providers for their households, managing their homes through this work. We also receive respect from the communities we serve. People welcome us into their homes, oﬀering food and water, especially during the scorching summer months when we work in harsh weather conditions. 15 Tina Area-Incharge, Islamabad Expansion of environmental surveillance sites to ensure no missed circulation. Enhanced acute flaccid paralysis surveillance, particularly in inaccessible areas. A comparison of routine immunization rates with previous years to monitor trends. Increased coordination with the Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI) and additinal support to EPI initiatives from the Polio Programme. WHO supported the Programme in implementing these recommendations through: Addition of nine environmental surveillance sampling sites in priority districts. Enhanced training and engagement with health practitioners and community informants to report acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) cases, adding over 900 AFP reporting sites and 50,000 community-based informants. Collection and testing of one-time environmental samples, particularly in districts without environmental sampling sites, to detect circulation. Continued support to the Expanded Programme on Immunization in implementing its outreach activities and the third round of “Reaching the Unreached” activity in priority districts of southern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The National Certification Committee (NCC) – an independent body that evaluates