for Polio at the National Institute of Health (NIH) in Islamabad, which has been declared the best in 146 laboratories across the world by experts of the Global Polio Eradication Initiativeʼs Technical Advisory Group. This highly sensitive surveillance ensured the swift detection of poliovirus circulation, guiding decision-making on outbreak response campaigns and vaccination strategies. Additionally, WHO supported the Government in enhancing polio and other routine vaccination coverages through several strategies that protected previously unreached and inaccessible children: Ayesha Raza Polio Survivor and Vaccinator, Lahore Itʼs not easy for me to walk during polio campaigns due to my limited mobility, but I cannot miss the chance to bring hope and resilience to the children of Pakistan. I eagerly await the day when polio is completely eradicated, bringing a brighter future for our nation and the world. 3 Children protected with the injectable polio vaccine could be the same who received other routine doses. 4 Zero-dose children refers to those who have not yet received even a single vaccine dose. 05 Polio resurgence Pakistan reported 74 polio cases in 2024 as the country faced a resurgence of wild poliovirus type 1 (WPV1). While the absence of detection of the endemic YB3C WPV1 genetic cluster was a considerable success, the spread of the YB3A WPV1 genetic cluster, which was reintroduced to Pakistan in 2023 through cross-border transmission, remained a challenge. The virus spread to 90 districts, reinfecting previously cleared core reservoirs in Karachi, Quetta and Peshawar, which then became engines of further transmission. The virus also circulated in endemic southern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa districts and even spread to historically low-risk remote districts of Balochistan. With this drastic change in epidemiology, the Government of Pakistan revitalized polio eradication eﬀorts with personal oversight from the Prime Minister and the appointment of new leadership for the Polio Programme for improved coordination among provinces. WHO supported the Polio Programme in finalizing its National Emergency Action Plan 2024-25 with a strategic “2-4-6 roadmap” to accelerate progress. Under this umbrella, the Programme underwent a two-month reset in July and August with a critical reevaluation of all areas of work, collaborative planning with the provinces and the development of district improvement plans. From September to December, three large-scale vaccination campaigns were held during a 4-month period to build a defense against virus spread. The roadmapʼs third phase began in January 2025. To complete the “2-4-6 Roadmap”, the Programme has planned additional