mix, technology, safety requirements and country affordability). 6.2 Vaccine Security 6.2.1 Any contraindications for vaccination will show compliance to the EPI’s detailed guidelines and evidence from WHO position papers and updated advice from the UNICEF and other UN partners. 6.2.2 Federal and provincial/ area teams will be developed with competencies in: 6.2.2.1 Vaccine management within stores and at each level, 6.2.2.2 Keeping records of vaccines by batch numbers as a quality assurance measure, 6.2.2.3 Developing vaccine logistics forecasting and planning, 6.2.2.4 Understanding and operating vaccine management software used at all levels. 6.2.3 Costing and assessment of financing gaps, economic impacts, financial mechanisms for sustainability, cost estimations of possibilities to manufacture vaccines on local strains and local use for consideration of the higher authorities. The immunization program in Pakistan is shifting to the recurrent side of its budgeting. Evidence suggests that the cost ranges may be higher than current estimates for LMICs ($0.16-$2.54 incremental cost per dose). Integration of the EPI program and putting it in recurrent side is estimated to avert 85% of deaths due to VPDs given sustainability in the required resources is ensured with strict accountability. A costed Plan of Action is desirable when the program shifts to the recurrent side of the budget. This will encompass: 6.2.3.1 The M/o NHSR&C and the FDI, in collaboration with provinces/ areas and development partners, will mobilize sufficient resources to extend immunization services where needed 6.2.3.2 In lieu and compliance to the Economic Affairs Division’s and Ministry of Finance’s commitments, the EPI will develop case to gradually increase the government contribution for immunization services. NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 32 6.2.3.3 Any new vaccine’s application for its introduction will be critically analyzed in terms of costs, financing gaps and efficacy. 6.2.3.4 Introducing a new vaccine will have the endorsement of the Ministry of Finance in order to ensure its financial sustainability when it comes to government’s share of purchasing the vaccines. 6.2.3.5 In order to maintain transparency, accountability and trust and minimize elements of any corruption, vaccine procurement from the government’s share will be done through the UNICEF or through open tendering process, as prescribed by the finance division and the controlling ministry. 6.2.3.6 All steps in the process of financial sustainability, acquiring and manufacturing of vaccines, and introducing new vaccines will be carefully considered to ensure that there is no conflict of interest in decision making. 6.2.4 Cold chain of