PPP TPVICS UNICEF VPD WHO Executive Summary Pakistan has made impressive progress in immunization coverage over the past 30 years with a 117.6% increase in the proportion of children aged 12–23 months fully immunized between 1990 and 2020. With improvements in the vaccination rates, Pakistan was able to reduce the incidence of two vaccine preventable diseases (VPDs) – diphtheria by 94% and measles by 88% over the same period. Despite successive achievements, disparities remain in terms of coverage by vaccine type, socioeconomic background, and demographics. Immunization remains a high priority for the Government of Pakistan and an important element of progress toward universal health coverage and resilient health systems. The government initiated the National Immunization Support Project (NISP) in 2016 with financing from partners including the World Bank, the United States Agency for International Development, Gavi the Vaccine Alliance, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. NISP is a five-year project, scheduled to close in June 2022, which supports and incentivizes the implementation of the government's Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI). NISP has been instrumental in reducing childhood morbidity and mortality from VPDs. Despite significant efforts by the Government and its partners, the immunization coverage is yet to reach the expected benchmarks. Worldwide, Pakistan is one of the two countries where poliomyelitis is still endemic. With respect to coverage of vaccination for diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis/whooping cough, and measles, Pakistan had the second lowest coverage in the South Asia region in 2020. In terms of incidence of VPDs, Pakistan had the second highest incidence of both diphtheria and polio in South Asia in 2020. In comparison to the countries in Eastern and Southern Asia with similar income levels as Pakistan, immunization coverage is relatively low. There is a need to continue to strengthen Pakistan's EPI to improve the health of its children. Further enhancing health systems through an expansion of vaccination sites, among others, and prioritizing lagging areas to maximize immunization coverage in underperforming provinces and districts, are two important. In addition, ensuring sustainable financing for EPI, fostering public–private partnership, and exploring innovative approaches for improving vaccine uptake and ensuring readiness of the supply side, can help improve immunization coverage. 1 1. Background Pakistan is the fifth most populous country in the world, with a projected population of 232 million in 2021, of whom 51 million are women of childbearing age and 33 million children under five years of age.