storage at public and private sector, licensing of new vaccine for public and private sector use, commissioning of new research, assessments/evaluations to guide policies. 3.2.4 The NITAG will also provide special policy and strategy direction to the M/o NHSR&C in any emergency (e.g., earthquake, flood etc.) for any particular population in any particular area to control any imminent epidemic of VPDs. 3.3 Role and Functions of Public/Private Sectors at National, Provincial and Districts Levels 3.3.1 Role and Functions of the M/o NHSR&C & Federal Directorate of Immunization (FDI) 3.3.1.1 Ensure ownership and accountability at the federal, provincial/ areas and district management levels. 3.3.1.2 Effective donor coordination and reporting, partnership building, proposal development after due consultation with provinces and federating areas. 3.3.1.3 Shall forecast and procure the required vaccine quantities, besides estimated “Buffer Stocks” of vaccines, syringes, supply chain equipment and allied equipment required for smooth functioning of the EPI program and to prevent and avert any outbreak of the vaccine preventable disease. 3.3.1.4 Shall train the adequate number of required staffs. The EPI will also train the staff of private sector where required. 3.3.1.5 Implement national immunization policy and procedures in letter and spirit. 3.3.1.6 Periodically conduct surveillance and monitoring activities. 3.3.1.7 Shall conduct regular research and evaluation studies and activities. 3.3.1.8 Enhance synergies between EPI and PEI and other vertical programs. 3.3.2 Role and Functions of the Health Department (Provincial and District Levels) 3.3.2.1 Shall ensure timely availability of required quantities of vaccines, syringes and allied equipment required for smooth functioning of the EPI program, and to prevent and avert any outbreak of the vaccine preventable disease. 3.3.2.2 Shall recruit and train the adequate number of required staffs including staff from private health care providers where required. 3.3.2.3 Develop annual plans in line with cMYP and implement as per EPI policy. 3.3.2.4 Periodically conduct surveillance and monitoring activities. NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 22 3.3.2.5 Shall assemble and analyze EPI data, both from the public and private sectors and inform the federal level. 3.3.2.6 Conduct monthly review meetings on regular basis at district and provincial levels. 3.3.2.7 Enhance synergies between EPI and PEI and other vertical programs. 3.3.3 Role and Functions of Private Sector 3.3.3.1 Where the private sector is involved as an implementing partner, it shall provide appropriate manpower, specialized CCE (ILR, SVC, etc.) dedicated cold chain equipment and space for providing immunization services to the people visiting