and the dramatic reduction in morbidity and mortality from vaccine preventable diseases. Recognizing these achievements, Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination has revised this policy document to integrate all current and evidence-based vaccination practices. The aim is to standardize practices and opportunities for vaccination services. The National Immunization Policy is the result of a long process of intensive consultations, teamwork, detailed studies, and information gathering. This policy seeks to guide health workers on vaccination priorities and acceptable practices for the overall benefit and welfare of EPI as a program. The Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination would like to acknowledge the technical assistance of WHO and UNICEF along with all expanded and local partners in updating this National Immunization Policy. NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 9 Message by The Director General, FDI Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination Dr. Muhammad Akram Shah Today I feel pride in introducing the National Immunization Policy 2022 of the Expanded Program on Immunization. This policy document is based on the wealth of technical experience of government officials and development/ technical partners. Firstly, I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the Special Assistant to the Prime Minister on Health, Dr. Faisal Sultan and top leadership of the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination for putting trust and confidence in EPI team. I would also like to appreciate and acknowledge all development and technical partners for participating in the review process of this policy document, giving comments and recommending the necessary changes to ensure its finalization. This policy document provides strategic guidance for the implementation of the immunization program in Pakistan. It builds on the direction and planning of the comprehensive Multi-Year Plan (cMYP) 2020 2024, experience gained during recent years of implementing routine and supplementary immunization activities and international immunization guidelines. I kindly request all officials of the Federal and Provincial EPI teams and partners working in immunization to take the National Immunization Policy 2022 as a strategic and guiding document in relation to the implementation of immunization services in the country. I would also like to acknowledge and thank country teams of WHO and UNICEF for their technical assistance in terms of formulation of this document. NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 10 Foreword Pakistan’s Immunization program is in place since 1978. During this time, it has gone through a lot of