health care will further ensure sustainability. 11. Use of technology and innovations: eHealth is an emerging technology in the field of health. Improving immunization coverage and increasing demand has been tested and proven effective in various settings especially the low-income countries. These strategies and interventions will be given priority and be integrated into the routine immunization program. Innovations will be adopted by the program aiming to enhance demand for vaccines, better data integration and accuracy. 12. Effective communication: Communicating and pursuing immunization with parents and caregivers of the children needs a scientific approach. As a policy, the program will use effective and proven communication strategies to outreach the zero dose and dropouts. 1.3 Policy Directions for Introduction of new vaccines After thorough epidemiological, cost-effective assessments, level of available evidence with stakeholders’ consultation, the EPI program will introduce new vaccines into routine immunization as per recommendations of NITAG and subsequent approval of NICC. 1.4 Fully Immunized Child A fully immunized child (FIC) is defined as a child who has received at least: BCG dose at birth, three doses of polio and two doses of IPV, three doses of Penta, three doses of PCV, two doses of Rota, and one dose of measles and rubella vaccines before 12 months of age2. 1.5 Zero Dose Child EPI Pakistan will follow the international definition set by WHO/UNICEF (2020)3 a child will be considered a zero-dose child who has not received Pentavalent 1 vaccine. 2 This FIC definition is the suggested one for Pakistan under new EPI policy. It is to highlight those provinces/areas do modify their FIC definitions as per their requirements and targets. 3 Progress and Challenges with Achieving Universal Immunization Coverage https://www.who.int/immunization/monitoring_ surveillance/who-immuniz.pdf NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 16 SECTION 2 2. Immunization Pathways NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 17 2.1 Immunization Reporting, Surveillance and Research 2.1.1 Routine EPI Reporting. 2.1.1.1 All public health facilities and selected private health facilities with a gradual uptake with the EPI counterparts shall maintain a uniform prescribed vaccination register, both as paper and electronic record for the target population in the catchment area of the health facility, and if feasible, will link immunization registration to birth registration processes. 2.1.1.2 All public health facilities and selected private health facilities shall record vaccination given on an immunization card and updating the electronic cards (if available) maintain the minimum standards required by the country’s immunization system. 2.1.1.3 All public