cooperation between the federal and provincial/ area health bodies. Immunization program will create better opportunities and aid the coordination within the public sector stakeholders, donors and partners. It would also engage the private sector through MOU in order to NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 13 achieve the SDG3 targets. Result-based monitoring is one such tool that addresses effective implementation of the concept of good governance. 2. Responsiveness: The national immunization program needs to be more responsive by ensuring dignity, confidentiality, autonomy, prompt attention, participatory approach, and choice of provider on the service delivery side. At present, vaccine hesitancy and elements of non-trust in the publicly provided vaccines, which would be addressed through the improved Interpersonal Communication (IPC) skills for vaccinators in order to remove the barriers. 3. Transparency and accountability at all levels: To address this aspect, measures for internal transparency and accountability need to be strengthened where the measures for external accountability do exist usually. 4. Vaccine forecasting and procurement: All EPI vaccines are procured at federal level on behalf of provinces as pool procurement system and further distributed to the provincial levels according to share of the provinces. Procurement of vaccines is carried out on annual basis. The annual requirement is estimated through a forecasting process in consultation with provinces based on the target population for each vaccine, available balances, estimated coverage target, number of doses administered per target and wastage multiplying factor. The vaccines are procured following the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) 2004 rules. The vaccines like BCG, OPV and Td are procured through Government of Pakistan funds and the vaccines like Measles Rubella (MR), Pentavalent, Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV), Inactivated Polio Vaccine (IPV), Typhoid Conjugate Vaccine (TCV) and Rotavirus vaccines are procured as country cofinancing share with Gavi as per Gavi vaccine policy until the country would graduate from Gavi support. According to the current country decision, allowed open vial wastage of EPI routine vaccines is as below: S/N Name of Vaccine Wastage (%) Wastage Multiplying Factor (WMF) 1 BCG 50 2 2 OPV 20 1.25 3 Pentavalent 5 1.05 4 PCV (4 doses vial) 10 1.11 5 Rotavirus 5 1.05 6 IPV 20 1.25 7 MR 20 1.25 8 TCV 10 1.11 9 Td 20 1.25 NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 14 EPI vaccines administered at service delivery levels as per following MDVP: S/N Name of Vaccine Preservative Placement of VVM Multi Dose Vial