in reducing the number of polio cases by 99.6%. With her left leg paralyzed and diﬀiculty in walking, she endured a challenging childhood. But she refused to let this disability define her. She turned to a career as a health worker, while also volunteering for the Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme. She works as a vaccinator and social mobilizer in Lahore, transforming her struggles into a powerful example to convince hesitant parents to vaccinate their children to protect them from lifelong disability. "I eagerly await the day when polio is completely eradicated, bringing a brighter future for our nation and the world.” STORIES FROM THE FIELD Ayesha, the polio survivor protecting Pakistani children from disability 18 In the rough mountainous terrain of Lakki Marwat, two brave Pashtun women, Bakht Roza and Basmina, navigate remote, security-compromised areas on motorbikes to vaccinate children against 12 deadly diseases, including polio. Working in Bettani Subdivision, where health services are scarce, they are the sole source of essential immunization for children and expecting mothers. Deployed under the Nomads Vaccination Initiative – launched in 2022 to vaccinate nomadic children who often miss polio and routine vaccinations due to frequent movement – Bakht Roza and Basmina travel vast distances and overcome cultural barriers to protect children from terrible diseases. They have vaccinated nearly 2,800 children, convinced over 200 refusal families to accept immunization, and administered tetanus vaccinations for pregnant women who were previously not receiving vaccination at the local health facility because only a male vaccinator was available. Braving harsh terrain, falls from bikes, and community resistance, they remain steadfast. “We think of all the children in the community who need our help as our own children, and that motivates us to keep going,” says Bakht Roza. Their story is a testament to the resilience and dedication of female vaccinators who ensure that every child has the chance for a healthy future. By Muhammad Shoaib, Peshawar “As a public health worker, a polio-free Pakistan is my highest priority and a dream to realize.” Making Pakistan polio-free is a priority for Dr Sarwat Wajahat Sheikh, a WHO Disease Surveillance Oﬀicer (DSO) in Karachiʼs Malir district. Her hard work and exceptional commitment to identifying and investigating polio cases in her district was recognized by the Government of Sindh on World Polio Day 2024. In 2017, Dr Sarwat joined WHO in Sindhʼs Dadu district, where she played a key role in