to hide and spread. Prioritizing vaccination and surveillance eﬀorts in endemic and outbreak-prone districts as well as supporting integrated service delivery activities implemented by partners. As wild poliovirus circulation remained intense in 2024 with detections in 90 districts, the Polio Programme, with WHOʼs support, positioned itself to take advantage of the low-transmission season before May 2025 to conduct high-quality vaccination campaigns and raise childrenʼs immunity levels. The Polio Programme objective was to reduce the number of cases and advance towards the interruption of the transmission. WHO will continue to support the Polio Programme in ensuring the full implementation of the National Emergency Action Plan 2024-25 through the following main actions: As a founding and implementing partner of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI), WHO stands with Pakistan and its partners to provide the highest-quality technical, planning, and operational support to run together the last mile towards polio eradication. Ending the global threat of polio is a health imperative in a context in which the cost of inaction would be higher than the cost of action, since no child in the world will be safe from polio until all children are safe. Chapter 6: The last mile to end the global threat of polio 17 “Itʼs not easy for me to walk during polio campaigns due to my limited mobility, but I cannot miss the chance to bring hope and resilience to the children of Pakistan.” Polio eradication is a personal mission for Ayesha Raza, a Pakistani polio survivor and health worker whose remarkable commitment earned her global recognition at the Golden Jubilee Ceremony of the Islamic Development Bank – a polio eradication donor – which took place in Saudi Arabia in 2024. Every year, Ayesha is one of the 400,000 vaccinators who go door-to-door to implement massive Government-led vaccination campaigns, supported by the World Health Organization (WHO) and partners, to protect over 45 million children against paralytic polio in Pakistan. Ayesha was only two years old when she contracted polio in the 1990s, when Pakistan did not have a dedicated polio programme. Since then, vaccinators like Ayesha have been vital in reducing the number of polio cases by 99.6%. With her left leg paralyzed and diﬀiculty in walking, she endured a challenging childhood. But she refused to let this disability define her. She turned to a career as a health worker, while also volunteering for the Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme.