coverage was low, and enabled data-driven decision-making on corrective measures for subsequent rounds. Chapter 2: Monitoring and Evaluation 10 Following a polio campaign, lot quality assurance sampling (LQAS) is used as an informative tool to assess campaign quality through field surveys. Every campaign, a total of 60 children – one child from 10 diﬀerent houses located in six randomly selected clusters – are assessed in each union council (UC). Depending on the number of unvaccinated children found in a lot, the UC performance is assessed as “pass”, “intermediate” or “low quality”. With LQAS surveys conducted in 5,311 union councils, 258,000 children were assessed to identify areas where children might have been missed. In 2024 campaigns, the total number of union councils having obtained the “pass” qualification ranged from 70% in the August campaign to 87.5% in the March campaign. Post-campaign monitoring (PCM) provides direct coverage estimates by having teams assess every child for polio vaccination finger marking in 30 randomly selected houses within designated union councils. Additionally, 50 children are randomly assessed through spot surveys conducted in the streets or in diﬀerent outdoor settings. While LQAS and PCM assessments may be conducted in the same districts, their methodologies remain distinct, ensuring separate evaluations of quality and coverage. During 2024, 167,434 children were assessed in 2,576 PCM lots and the pass rate varied across campaigns, ranging from 69.8% in the September campaign to 86.8% in the March campaign, with an overall pass rate of 74.9%. 05 05 2.1. Lot Quality Assurance Sampling (LQAS) 2.2. Post-Campaign Monitoring (PCM) 11 Throughout the reporting period, WHO partnered with the Government of Pakistan to maintain the largest and most-sensitive poliovirus surveillance network in the world with over 12,500 acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) reporting sites across the country, 127 environmental surveillance sampling sites in 87 districts, and 81 sites to screen and monitor patients with primary immunodeficiency disorders and detect poliovirus. In 2024, this robust surveillance network detected 74 polio cases and 628 sewage samples positive for wild poliovirus. It was critical in identifying geographic blind spots of virus transmission and areas with low routine vaccination coverage, while detecting atypical, asymptomatic and even mild paralysis cases which might otherwise have been missed. Surveillance data enabled the Polio Programme to plan eﬀective evidence-based strategies in all aﬀected areas. After the detection of several orphan polioviruses (viruses detected in sewage samples that lack recent genetic links to known