particularly in districts without environmental sampling sites, to detect circulation. Continued support to the Expanded Programme on Immunization in implementing its outreach activities and the third round of “Reaching the Unreached” activity in priority districts of southern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The National Certification Committee (NCC) – an independent body that evaluates Pakistanʼs readiness for polio-free certification and submits progress reports to the WHO EMRO Regional Certification Commission – convened biannual meetings in 2024, reviewing the Polio Programmeʼs progress and advising on the improvements needed to meet the requirements for certification. The NCC, comprised of leading experts in pediatrics, immunization and neurology appointed by the national government in consultation with WHO Pakistan, reviewed the epidemiology, campaign performance, surveillance indicators and coverage data shared by the Programme. It also assessed whether population immunity was high enough to prevent circulation, the sensitivity of the surveillance network to detect any virus, the countryʼs risk assessment and risk mitigation strategies, as well as preparedness to respond to outbreaks. The Committee also assessed if the country had minimized the risks of reintroduction of poliovirus through virus handling facilities. The main recommendations included: Chapter 5: National Certification Committee 16 Implementation of three nationwide polio campaigns in the first half of 2025 to immunize more than 45 million children under five, maintaining a strong focus on ensuring consistent vaccination of all target children. Continued implementation of polio campaigns and alternate outreach strategies driven by risk assessments, population movement dynamics and epidemiology, focusing on consistently reaching children on the move or in inaccessible areas. Further strengthening of surveillance through continued engagements with physicians and community-based formal and informal practitioners on acute flaccid paralysis reporting, enhancing eﬀorts to identify any and all blind spots of surveillance and filling the gaps. Ensuring epidemiology, risk assessments, risk modelling, genetic sequencing and data of lineages continues to be leveraged for analyses and eﬀective interventions. Strengthening routine immunization through integrated Polio Programme and Expanded Programme on Immunization eﬀorts and activities, particularly in underserved areas at high risk for polio transmission, to break pockets of unvaccinated or under-vaccinated children and leave no place for the virus to hide and spread. Prioritizing vaccination and surveillance eﬀorts in endemic and outbreak-prone districts as well as supporting integrated service delivery activities implemented by partners. As wild poliovirus circulation remained intense in 2024 with detections in 90 districts, the Polio Programme, with WHOʼs support, positioned itself to take advantage of