of transmission. Therefore, for polio-free certification, countries must demonstrate comprehensive poliovirus surveillance, including acute flaccid paralysis and environmental surveillance, and surveillance among patients with PID to detect possible iVDPVs. In 2024, PID surveillance was transitioned to the WHO-supported surveillance unit at the National Emergency Operations Center (NEOC), which began the formal national rollout of iVDPV surveillance embedded within PID surveillance. Across the country, 81 sentinel hospitals have been identified, engaging clinicians to screen and report suspected PID cases to the Polio Programme. Blood testing is facilitated for these patients to confirm PID diagnoses. Once confirmed, stool sampling is initiated to detect poliovirus excretion. If poliovirus is detected, monthly stool tests are conducted until the virus is no longer detected. To date, 591 suspected PID cases have been identified, with 124 confirmed PID cases monitored by national, provincial, and district surveillance teams. The integration of iVDPV surveillance in the broader poliovirus surveillance strategy has strengthened Pakistanʼs ability to identify and follow prolonged transmitters of iVDPV and aims to minimize the risk of undetected virus transmission. 3.4. Poliovirus Surveillance in patients with primary immunodeficiency disorder (PID) 7 These numbers include the overall stool samples processed by the WHO-accredited Regional Reference Lab for Polio for AFP cases, contact sampling and healthy children stool sampling. 14 Adopting a gender-responsive approach in line with the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI)ʼ s Gender Equality Strategy 2019–2026, WHO continues to integrate gender in its polio operations and support gender mainstreaming in the Pakistan Polio Programme through a focus on recruiting more women in the workforce in technical, operational and decision-making roles, as well as recruiting women in field supervisory cadres of frontline workers, especially in areas where cultural sensitivities make it diﬀicult for male-only vaccination teams to access children in households. In 2024, collaboration between the NEOC Gender Working Group (GWG) and the WHO Gender Management Group (GMG) drove positive implementation eﬀorts, building on past progress and focusing on future impact. Key gender-related interventions included: Integration of gender training and materials in various technical trainings. Development and distribution of gender-responsive communication material to be used in campaign training for frontline workers. In parallel, content on gender sensitivity and how to maintain a respectful workplace has also been included in the technical training booklet prepared for community-based vaccinators. In addition, 400,000 brochures promoting a respectful workplace were distributed nationwide among frontline vaccinators. Implementation of one of the recommendations