data including reporting system has been maintained for future plan of action to safeguard public health and environment. NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 28 SECTION 5 5. Human Resources NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 29 5.1 Human Resources 5.1.1 The EPI program shall hire new vaccinators as per requirement identified in 4.10.2 section of this National EPI policy. 5.1.2 All the staff involved in immunization will be given regular in-service training and other capacity building opportunities related to injection safety, vaccine handling and storage, surveillance, waste management, monitoring and evaluation. 5.1.3 Mechanisms for reward and accountability for high and low performing EPI staff will be in place. 5.1.4 EPI staff capabilities in interpersonal communication will be regularly enhanced to promote them as brand ambassador for the program. 5.1.5 In order to improve the program’s efficiency, more emphasis will be given to skill-mix though improving the staff-mix will also be considered where there is shortage of vaccinators. Increasing the number of the vaccination staff, mixing their qualifications (where other paramedic and nursing staff could also be involved in vaccinating clients), balancing senior and junior staff members and mixing disciplines (all cadres can be involved for vaccinating clients, if required) NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 30 SECTION 6 6. Vaccine Policy, and Vaccines’ Security NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 31 6.1 Vaccine Policy 6.1.1 Policy to changes in routine immunization schedule will be technically reviewed and recommended by the NITAG and endorsed by the NICC. 6.1.2 The changes will be based on recent research evidence of disease burden, vaccine efficacy, vaccine safety and program feasibility. 6.1.3 New vaccines inclusion into the vaccination schedule will be based on the following protocol: 6.1.3.1 Burden of the VPD in question (surveillance data, comprehensive studies, disease burden estimates by the WHO or Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation). 6.1.3.2 Extensive review and systematic reviews/meta-analysis of latest international evidence including WHO’s position papers on vaccine efficacy and safety. 6.1.3.3 Through assessment of system readiness and programmatic feasibility for inclusion of a new vaccine into the national schedule (cold chain capacity, surveillance capacity, monitoring capacity, human resource right mix, technology, safety requirements and country affordability). 6.2 Vaccine Security 6.2.1 Any contraindications for vaccination will show compliance to the EPI’s detailed guidelines and evidence from WHO position papers and updated advice from the UNICEF and other UN partners. 6.2.2 Federal and provincial/ area teams will be developed with competencies