immunized nearly 23 million individuals with polio drops, including adults who were vaccinated at international border crossings, to prevent the spread of poliovirus by travelers. Deployment of biker teams to reach nomadic children often missed in polio campaigns, as well as children in inaccessible areas with low vaccination rates, delivered oral and injectable polio vaccines to 636,000 children, and 645,000 doses of other routine vaccines – which help to increase immunity and protection against polio3. Special vaccination initiatives that immunized over 800,000 children during the high-travel season of Ramadan and Eid, engaging parents to give polio drops to their children. Collaborative activities with the Expanded Programme on Immunization to identify and vaccinate zero-dose4 children, building immunity and increasing vaccination rates. Executive Summary Since the launch of Pakistanʼs Polio Eradication Programme in 1994, polio cases have been reduced by over 99% through extensive polio vaccination campaigns and poliovirus surveillance, and the hard work of millions of vaccinators. However, to date, Pakistan and neighboring Afghanistan remain the only two countries where wild polio still survives, making it critical to intensify the response to end this persistent global threat to children across the planet. Pakistan, and the world, have an opportunity to deliver a polio-free world for future generations, but for that, we need to run together the last mile. No child will be safe until every child is safe. In 2024, WHO continued to partner with the Government of Pakistan to lead one of the largest polio eradication eﬀorts globally, protecting up to 45.6 million children under the age of five from paralytic polio through 10 house-to-house oral vaccination campaigns – three of them outbreak responses – and a targeted campaign that delivered the injectable polio vaccine to over 1 million children. In parallel, WHO supported the Polio Progamme in maintaining the largest and most sensitive poliovirus surveillance network in the world with over 12,500 acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) reporting sites nationwide, 127 environmental (wastewater) surveillance sites, and 81 sites to screen and monitor patients with primary immunodeficiency disorders and detect poliovirus. This network is supported by the WHO-accredited Regional Reference Laboratory for Polio at the National Institute of Health (NIH) in Islamabad, which has been declared the best in 146 laboratories across the world by experts of the Global Polio Eradication Initiativeʼs Technical Advisory Group. This highly sensitive surveillance ensured the swift detection of poliovirus circulation, guiding decision-making on outbreak response