together the last mile to end the global threat of polio, in Pakistan and across the world. Despite challenges, WHO-led teams supporting the Polio Programme remained resilient to continue protecting millions of children from paralytic polio. 06 WHO continued to support the government-led Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme in 2024, mobilizing over 412,000 vaccinators to immunize 45.6 million children under five with the oral polio vaccine in 10 house-to-house campaigns and over 1 million children with the injectable vaccine in priority areas. In addition, over 23 million individuals, including adults at international border crossings, were vaccinated through a comprehensive transit vaccination strategy, while dedicated biker teams reached 636,000 children with oral and injectable polio vaccines and administered 645,000 doses of routine vaccines through collaborative activities with the Expanded Programme on Immunization, increasing vaccination coverage and protecting childrenʼs health. As poliovirus spread remained intense, all 90 districts with positive detections were covered during three nationwide vaccination campaigns. Adhering to the Global Polio Eradication Initiativeʼs guidelines, three requisite response rounds were completed in 68 of 90 infected districts with additional responses ongoing as needed. Of these, 24 districts had no further polio detections, indicating success in stopping virus spread. Thanks to strengthened cross-border collaboration, two polio campaigns were synchronized with Afghanistan, while all campaigns post-June 2024 were harmonized throughout all territories in Pakistan, i.e. held during the same planned dates. Through increased outreach eﬀorts, the number of missed children decreased from 1.48 million to 1.13 million. In parallel, children unreached in campaigns due to security issues was reduced from 0.7 to 0.3 million. To enhance vaccination, surveillance and inclusion in monitoring activities of mobile populations, WHO-led Programme teams conducted an extensive exercise that identified and mapped 1.8 million migrant and mobile populations who were covered in subsequent campaigns. Chapter 1: VACCINATION OPERATIONS Key Data Points 45.6 M children vaccinated on average with the oral polio vaccine in house-to-house campaigns. 1 M+ children vaccinated with the injectable polio vaccine during a targeted campaign in Karachi. 412,000 vaccinators mobilized in polio campaigns. 636,000+ children in nomadic and hard-to-reach areas received oral and injectable polio vaccines through biker teams. 645,000 doses of injectable non-polio routine vaccines administered in hard-to-reach through biker teams. 23 M+ individuals in transit vaccinated at border crossings, train stations, bus stands, checkpoints and public places like malls and parks. 10 house-to-house oral polio vaccine campaigns conducted. 268.4 M doses of oral polio