shall be available at fixed sites on all working days, with an aim to enhance the fixed site vaccination by 70% 4.2.2 The designated EPI staff shall provide services at the fixed sites. Outreach services will be provided as per micro-plans and outreach plans. 4.2.3 Private health facilities will be offered integration with the EPI information system and in turn they would get free vaccine bundle (diluents, AD syringes, safety boxes, etc.), which they would administer by charging minimum administration cost. 4.2.4 Every Union Council will have at least one fixed EPI center. 4.2.5 Available community volunteers to be engaged for building trust. 4.3 Immunization Services for High Risk or Vulnerable Groups 4.3.1 The Federal and Provincial EPI teams and polio program, CBOs, NGOs, Pakistan Pediatric Association and the Pakistan Medical Association will have an annual immunization micro-plan identifying strategies and actions to reach hard to reach and underserved populations, as well as a system to monitor and act on immunization zero dose, due defaulter and drop out. 4.3.2 It is the policy of the M/o NHSR&C to support in implementation of travelers’ vaccination check for Pakistanis travelling abroad for Polio (till it is implemented by the WHO), COVID-19 (as per requirement), travelers to African regions, and to all Haj Pilgrims. 4.3.3 It is the policy of the M/o NHSR&C, depending on the availability of resources, to extend vaccination opportunity for COVID-19 and future pandemics of similar nature and other vaccinations against vaccine preventable diseases for identified high risk population groups. 4.4 Immunization Campaigns and Specific SIAs 4.4.1 Polio needs to be eradicated and whereas measles and rubella and maternal and neonatal NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 25 tetanus should be eliminated. The immunity gap among target groups will demand SIAs at regular intervals. The EPI will implement mass campaigns with strict monitoring and safety of the vaccines. 4.4.2 Research will be made integral part of such campaigns and with new vaccine introductions to ensure that adequate post marketing research is implemented to assess safety and efficacy of vaccines, as well as to confirm campaign coverage rates, and document any adverse events or lessons-learnt for future reference. 4.4.3 The EPI will implement targeted campaigns pertinent to the context of outbreak response or in case of a disaster rendering populations internally displaced. 4.5 Immunization in Schools 4.5.1 All public and private sector schools shall be eligible for campaigns vaccination against VPDs.