against vaccine preventable diseases (VPD) presents a highly cost-effective intervention by delivering significant reductions in morbidity and mortality from inexpensive and standardized interventions. It remains one of the most fundamental competencies of public health programs. The Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) has existed in Pakistan since 1978. In line with international standards, EPI in Pakistan aims to immunize all children against VPDs that include childhood tuberculosis, poliomyelitis, diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis, hepatitis B, haemophilus influenza type b (Hib) pneumonia and meningitis, measles, and diarrhea due to rotavirus. Immunization is a high priority for the Government of Pakistan and an important part of making progress to universal health coverage and building resilient health systems. The government initiated the National Immunization Support Project (NISP) in 2016 with financing from partners including the World Bank, the United States Agency for International Development, Gavi the Vaccine Alliance, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. NISP is a five-year project, scheduled to close in June 2022, that aims to increase equitable coverage of services for immunization against VPDs, including poliomyelitis, for children aged 0–23 months in Pakistan. The project supports and incentivizes the implementation of the government's EPI program, which has contributed to significantly decreasing childhood morbidity and mortality from VPDs. Despite significant efforts by the government and its partners, Pakistan's immunization indicators have yet to reach the expected benchmarks. Pakistan is one of the two countries in the world, where poliomyelitis is still endemic. The country ranks third in terms of highest number of unimmunized children (1.2 million) in the world, after Nigeria (approximately 4 million) and India (2.9 million). https://databank.worldbank.org/data/download/hci/HCI_2pager_PAK.pdf data.worldbank.org Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 2017-18. 2019. National Survey, Islamabad: National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS) and ICF. 3 2 1 4 http://www.emro.who.int/pak/programmes/expanded-programme-on-immunization.html Global Polio Eradication Initiative. 2021. https://polioeradication.org/where-we-work/polio-endemic-countries/ UNICEF. 2021. https://www.unicef.org/pakistan/press-releases/over-20-million-children-worldwide-missed-out-measles-vaccine-annually-past-8-years 2 Introduction 1 2 3 4 5 6 5 6 This report documents the progress made by Pakistan in immunizing its children between 1990 and 2020. This is based on analysis of primary data collected through a nationwide survey, the Third-Party Verification Immunization Coverage Survey (TPVICS) 2021, as well as data from existing sources including the Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDHS). The next chapter documents the significant progress made in immunization coverage over time, followed by a regional comparison of immunization status in South Asia to highlight where Pakistan stands. The report concludes with some programmatic recommendations. 3 Objectives of