through biker teams. 645,000 doses of injectable non-polio routine vaccines administered in hard-to-reach through biker teams. 23 M+ individuals in transit vaccinated at border crossings, train stations, bus stands, checkpoints and public places like malls and parks. 10 house-to-house oral polio vaccine campaigns conducted. 268.4 M doses of oral polio vaccine administer in house-to-house campaigns. 07 As Pakistan faced a poliovirus resurgence that spread to 90 districts, WHO supported the Polio Programme in implementing 10 house-to-house Supplementary Immunization Activities, including three nationwide, four subnational and three outbreak response campaigns with varying vaccination targets, reaching an overall average of 45.6 million children under five with polio drops and keeping them safe from the threat of lifelong paralysis from polio. In parallel, as wild poliovirus type 1 (WPV1) circulation was particularly high in Karachi, a strategic targeted vaccination campaign was implemented to immunize over 1 million children with the injectable polio vaccine – adding an immunity boost – in priority areas of Karachi, a poliovirus reservoir that drives transmission to other districts. House-to-house campaigns were supplemented with several strategies to support the Government in increasing polio and other routine vaccine coverages to stop poliovirus transmission. Over 23 million individuals were immunized with polio drops through a comprehensive transit vaccination strategy, while WHO also supported national authorities in leading the delivery of critical polio and other routine vaccines to underserved communities – such as nomadic, mobile and other unreached children – through dedicated biker teams, leveraging joint resources and expertise of the Polio Programme and the Expanded Programme on Immunization. 1.1. Supplementary Immunization Activities (SIAs) 1.2. Alternate Vaccination Strategies Over 8.3 million children and adults were vaccinated with the oral polio vaccine by teams stationed year-round at permanent posts at international, interprovincial and interdistrict borders, international airports and railway stations. Travelers of all ages are vaccinated, in particular at crossings along the Pakistan-Afghanistan and Pakistan-Iran border, to prevent the international spread of wild poliovirus in line with the recommendations of the International Health Regulations Emergency Commission for Polio. Additionally, 800 teams deployed at key locations such as bus stops and hospitals, particularly during labor or seasonal migration, administered the oral polio vaccine to 14 million children on the move to curb the spread of poliovirus from high-risk areas to polio-free districts. In addition, 800,000 children were also vaccinated at stalls set up during the high-travel season of Ramadan and the two Eids in