information of the benefits and adverse events following immunization (if any) of the vaccines given their benefits in terms of protection and verbal reminders of the next visit along with information that they will be receiving through text messages from the EPI program for their next due vaccination for compliance and complete vaccination. 4.7 Policy on Gender and Immunization 4.7.1 The sex desegregated data will be collected and reviewed for any disparities routinely through the EPI MIS and the coverage evaluation surveys. 4.7.2 Any barriers in accessing vaccines at gender level will be addressed with better communication strategies. 4.8 Policy on User Fees for Immunization 4.8.1 There will be no user fees for immunization services in Pakistan in public health facilities. In case the private sector is engaged for immunization services through provision of free of cost vaccines by the government, they will not charge the cost of the vaccines, however, they would charge minimum administration cost only. 4.9 Policy on use of Syringes and Needle Size 4.9.1 The auto-disable syringes of international quality (WHO prequalified) and ISO certified companies will be procured/acquired having a needle size of 24G or 25G considering the smaller size of South Asian children as compared to the Caucasian children. 4.9.2 The vaccines should be injected in the area where local, neural, vascular or tissue injury is unlikely to occur. Longer needles are likely to cause less redness and swelling as compared to shorter needles. The length of the needle should be long enough to reach the muscle mass, to avoid seepage into the subcutaneous region. The vaccinators should have the knowledge of anatomy of the injection site. 4.9.3 Disposable single-use syringes and needles are not recommended for injections in immunization programs. Used auto-disable syringes will NOT be reused in any case and will be discarded as per the Environmental & Social Management Plan (ESMP) and Hospital Waste Management (HWM) Rules 2005. 4.10 Policy on Distribution of Vaccinators/Skilled Immunization Staff in Union Council 4.10.1 Vaccinator/skilled immunization staff is to be deployed in union councils according to population or catchment area (whichever is smaller). 4.10.2 At least two vaccinators/skilled immunization staff (one for fixed site and one for outreach) to be deployed in every union council irrespective of population, catchment area or target. However, vaccinator/skilled immunization staff can be increased per union council based on two criteria – population and/or geographical distance and terrain. One vaccinator/skilled