Activities” in 43 high-risk union councils of Peshawar, providing BCG, Penta-I and Penta-III vaccines to 37,500 children who had not received the complete doses of their routine vaccination schedule. During the EPI-led “Big Catch-Up” – aimed at reaching children who missed routine doses due to the COVID-19 pandemic or any other reason –, the Polio Programme provided support to EPI by strengthening microplanning, enhancing surveillance, and deploying trained workforce for vaccination campaigns. The Programme also facilitated capacity-building, community engagement, and real-time monitoring to improve immunization coverage, ensuring missed children received essential vaccines. 1.2.3. Joint Interventions with the Expanded Programme on Immunization Daniyal Sikandri Nomads Vaccination Initiative Team Member, Bannu They [nomadic communities] want to protect their children from diseases too. We have received a lot of love from them. When we vaccinate their children, they are thankful and pray for us. It feels good that people like them and their children are also being taken care of. 09 Key Data Points 3,000+ surveyors deployed to assess coverage through post-campaign surveys. 258,300 children assessed in 5,300+ union councils. 7,100 surveyors mobilized to conduct independent quality assurance sampling. 167,400 children assessed in 2,500+ post-campaign monitoring lots. 17,252 individuals mobilized for campaign monitoring activities. 5 The number can include repetition because an individual assessor can be deployed in more than one campaign. During the reporting period, WHO supported the Polio Programme in assessing the coverage and quality of polio campaigns by mobilizing 17,2525 individuals – including surveyors, supervisors and monitors – to conduct the assessment of key monitoring and evaluation (M&E) indicators, Lot Quality Assurance Sampling (LQAS) and Post-Campaign Monitoring (PCM). Over 258,000 children were assessed in 5,311 union councils during LQAS assessments, while 167,000 children were assessed in 2,577 PCM lots after polio campaigns. Over 6,000 university students in their last year of study continued to be trained and engaged to conduct these surveys to ensure independent assessments, while also providing them meaningful field experience in public health interventions. The results and analysis of these monitoring and evaluation activities identified areas where children were missed for vaccination, campaign quality was suboptimal or coverage was low, and enabled data-driven decision-making on corrective measures for subsequent rounds. Chapter 2: Monitoring and Evaluation 10 Following a polio campaign, lot quality assurance sampling (LQAS) is used as an informative tool to assess campaign quality through field surveys. Every campaign, a total of 60 children – one