1st dose of MCV at 12 months or later based on the epidemiology of disease in the country, coverage estimates reﬂect the percentage of children who received the 1st dose of MCV as recommended. MCV2: percentage of children who received the 2nd dose of measles containing vaccine according to the nationally recommended schedule. RCV1: percentage of surviving infants who received the 1st dose of rubella containing vaccine. Co verage estimates are based on WHO and UNICEF estimates of coverage for the dose of measles containing vaccine that corresponds to the ﬁrst measles-rubella combination vaccine. Nationally reported coverage of RCV is not taken into consideration nor are the data represented in the accompanying graph and data table. HepBB: percentage of births which received a dose of hepatitis B vaccine within 24 hours of delivery. Estimates of hepatitis B birth dose coverage are produced only for countries with a universal birth dose policy. Estimates are not produced for countries that recommend a birth dose to infants born to HepB virus-infected mothers only or where there is insuﬃcient information to determine whether vaccination is within 24 hours of birth. HepB3: percentage of surviving infants who received the 3rd dose of hepatitis B containing vaccine following the birth dose. Hib3: percentage of surviving infants who received the 3rd dose of Haemophilus inﬂuenzae type b containing vaccine. RotaC: percentage of surviving infants who received the ﬁnal recommended dose of rotavirus vaccine, which can be either the 2nd or the 3rd dose depending on the vaccine. PcV3: percentage of surviving infants who received the 3rd dose of pneumococcal conjugate vaccine. In countries where the national schedule recommends two doses during infancy and a booster dose at 12 months or later based on the epidemiology of disease in the country, coverage estimates may reﬂect the percentage of surviving infants who received two doses of PcV prior to the 1st birthday. YFV: percentage of surviving infants who received one dose of yellow fever vaccine in countries where YFV is part of the national immunization schedule for children or is recommended in at risk areas; coverage estimates are annualized for the entire cohort of surviving infants. MengA: percentage of children who received one dose of meningococcal A conjugate vaccine. MengA coverage estimates produced for countries in the meningitis belt of sub-Saharan Africa. Disclaimer: All reasonable precautions have been taken by the World Health Organization and United Nations Children’s Fund