its origins and transmission chains, which also helped in identifying infected geographies. Key highlights of AFP surveillance for 2024 include: Expansion: With the addition of 934 more AFP reporting sites, the AFP surveillance network grew to over 12,500 reporting sites, increasing AFP reporting by 12% – from 19,772 in 2023 to 22,216 in 2024. Community-based Surveillance: The training and addition of 57,375 community informants and 8,602 health facility-based AFP focal persons strengthened surveillance at the community level, particularly in hard-to-access, riverine and security-compromised areas, leading to 2,423 AFP cases reported through communities. Contact Sampling: 11,012 contact samples were collected for all inadequate AFP cases6 and AFP cases reported from mobile populations, access-compromised and hard to reach areas, as well as Afghan refugees. In total, 20 out of 74 polio cases were confirmed through contact sampling. Healthy Stool Sampling: Stool samples were collected from 25 healthy children from Sujawal district of Sindh to rule out missed poliovirus circulation after an orphan virus was detected in sewage samples. All 25 stool samples were negative for poliovirus. Healthy stool sampling is conducted in areas where high-risk and vulnerable populations reside, but poliovirus is not being detected through any surveillance source, which implies a risk of undetected circulation. The WHO-supported environmental surveillance network in Pakistan is the largest in the world with 127 sites in 87 districts from where wastewater samples are collected every month for poliovirus testing. Programme teams collected 2,037 wastewater samples, of which 628 tested positive for polio, identifying areas where the virus is circulating in aﬀected populations and enabling the Polio Programme to plan appropriate outbreak response activities. Key highlights of environmental surveillance include: Expansion: In 2024, nine more sampling sites were added in four more districts, expanding the ES network to 127 sites in 87 districts. One-time Sampling: 38 one-time environmental samples were collected and tested from high-risk mobile populations and access-compromised areas in Balochistan and Sindh to detect circulation. Six of these were positive from Sindh, prompting their inclusion in subsequent vaccination rounds. 3.2. Environmental Surveillance 3.1. Acute Flaccid Paralysis (AFP) Surveillance Dr Sarwat Wajahat Sheikh WHO Disease Surveillance Oﬀicer, Malir, Karachi Disease surveillance is a powerful tool to level the playing field, to bend the arc of our country away from poliovirus and move towards a polio-free Pakistan. As a public health worker, a polio-free Pakistan is my highest priority and a dream to realize. 6 An