to increase routine immunization coverage through collaborative eﬀorts with the Expanded Programme on Immunization. I commend the hard work of thousands of vaccinators, WHO and partner staﬀ, campaign assessors, security personnel, and government counterparts at the national, provincial, and district levels to reach over 45 million children with the vaccine despite complex challenges like poliovirus resurgence, insecurity, inconsistent access to children, misinformation, vaccine hesitancy, and population movement. Their services to ensure the well-being of millions of children are invaluable. WHO will stand side by side with Pakistan and its partners to intensify the response and run together the last mile to end the global threat of polio. We will do it for our children and our grandchildren, because no child will be safe from polio until all children in the world are safe. Dr Dapeng Luo WHO Representative in Pakistan 03 45.6 M1 children under 5 vaccinated with the oral polio vaccine (average). WHO PAKISTAN POLIO RESPONSE 2024 AT A GLANCE WHO Pakistanʼs robust polio workforce and supported structures: 934 acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) reporting sites added to the surveillance network. 268.4 M doses of oral polio vaccine administer in house-to-house drives. 14,000+ WHO-associated personnel supported polio eradication eﬀorts. 1 M+ children vaccinated with the injectable polio vaccine. 2,037 environmental surveillance samples collected and tested at WHO-accredited Regional Reference Laboratory for Polio. 10 house-to-house oral polio vaccine campaigns conducted. 412,000+ vaccinators mobilized for every national campaign. 17,2522 individuals mobilized to independently assess campaign quality and coverage. 74 polio cases confirmed from the reported AFP cases through testing at WHO-accredited Regional Reference Laboratory for Polio. 12,500+ acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) reporting sites nationwide, 127 environmental surveillance points, and 81 sites for poliovirus surveillance in primary immunodeficiency patients – the largest and most sensitive poliovirus surveillance network globally. 22,216 AFP cases reported through robust surveillance. 1 The same child is vaccinated multiple times, as the Polio Programme conducted multiple campaigns. 2 The number can include repetition because an individual assessor can be deployed in more than one campaign. 628 environmental surveillance samples positive for poliovirus. 04 An extensive transit vaccination strategy that immunized nearly 23 million individuals with polio drops, including adults who were vaccinated at international border crossings, to prevent the spread of poliovirus by travelers. Deployment of biker teams to reach nomadic children often missed in polio campaigns, as well as children in inaccessible areas with low vaccination rates, delivered