between EPI and PEI and other vertical programs. 3.3.3 Role and Functions of Private Sector 3.3.3.1 Where the private sector is involved as an implementing partner, it shall provide appropriate manpower, specialized CCE (ILR, SVC, etc.) dedicated cold chain equipment and space for providing immunization services to the people visiting the health facility or clinic for medical assistance/ treatment. 3.3.3.2 Shall ensure monitoring and maintenance of cold chain for vaccines in accordance with the procedure laid down by the EPI Program. 3.3.3.3 Shall regularly maintain and share vaccination reports and record with the CEO/DHO Health on the standard reporting and recording tools. 3.3.3.4 Facilitate visits of external monitors (government/partners) to private health facilities to supervise cold-chain and vaccine management, stocks and safe injection practices, etc. 3.3.3.5 The cost of vaccines and injection supplies shall not be charged to the clients. Minimum service charges may be applied to cover overhead expenditures. NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 23 SECTION 4 4. Service Delivery NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 24 4.1 Immunization Services in Rural Areas 4.1.1 Immunization services shall be provided by the fixed, outreach and mobile strategies. Facility based fixed site vaccination will be enhanced from 30% to 70% with an exception to Balochistan where the current strategy for outreach services and mobile vaccination will continue along with fixed sites service delivery through EPI skilled staff. 4.1.2 Outreach services shall be provided on a daily basis as per plan in rural areas. Ideally, fixed health facilities shall be working 24/7. 4.1.3 In order to enhance integrated health services in hard to reach, and poor performing districts for improving the service utilization; considering UHC health benefit package, the already immunized target population would be linked through the EPI information system for other services such as birth registration, nutrition services and other mother and child services and programs. 4.1.4 Comprehensive microplanning on yearly basis shall be done in coordination with polio programs counterpart to reach each population pocket and children. Community engagement for microplanning will be considered for identifying the outreach sites. 4.2 Immunization in Peri-Urban and Urban Settings 4.2.1 EPI immunization services shall be available at fixed sites on all working days, with an aim to enhance the fixed site vaccination by 70% 4.2.2 The designated EPI staff shall provide services at the fixed sites. Outreach services will be provided as per micro-plans and outreach plans. 4.2.3 Private health facilities will be