tendering process, as prescribed by the finance division and the controlling ministry. 6.2.3.6 All steps in the process of financial sustainability, acquiring and manufacturing of vaccines, and introducing new vaccines will be carefully considered to ensure that there is no conflict of interest in decision making. 6.2.4 Cold chain of the vaccines as per their prescribed requirement shall be fully ensured. In a Standard Cold Box/ Vaccine Carrier, cool packs shall be used for transportation and temporary storage of routine immunization vaccines. 6.2.5 Programmable and functional temperature monitoring devices shall be mandatory in all cold chain equipment used for storing vaccines. 6.2.6 Injection safety and safe waste management of the used syringes, vials, ampules and infected material will be implemented following ESMP and HWM Rules 2005. 6.2.7 Only the vaccines fulfilling WHO pre-qualification and registered with DRAP will be used. NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 33 SECTION 7 7. Management Information System, eHealth and Artificial Intelligence NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 34 7.1 EPI shall have advanced level standard management information system of its own, which would be capable of integrating with other health information systems and use eHealth technology when required4. 7.2 The MIS will have its own dashboard where regular data of coverage, vaccine utilization and surveillance will be uploaded with real time analysis. 7.3 The MIS to be integrated with the National Immunization Management System of NADRA, Provincial/area vaccine management system and epidemic intelligence systems. 7.4 The eHealth would generate SMSs to the target population to address due defaulter and zero dose. The parents/caregivers will receive regular reminders for next vaccine dose and guidance about vaccines and immunization benefits. 7.4 The MIS will also receive data from the registered private health care providers. 7.5 The MIS platform will receive regular feedback from the parents/caregivers in order to improve the EPI service quality and timely respond to gaps in immunization program 4 Annexure II gives the evidence for use of eHealth (mHealth) in immunization programs NATIONAL IMMUNIZATION POLICY 2022 PAKISTAN 35 8. Annexure I National Vaccination Schedule Age Antigen Dose Route of administration Disease prevented Birth BCG 0.05 ml Intra – dermal On right upper arm Childhood Tuberculosis OPV-0 2 drops Oral Poliomyelitis Hepatitis-B 0.5 ml Intramuscular injection on anterolateral site of left thigh Hepatitis B 6 weeks OPV-I 2 drops Oral Poliomyelitis Rota – I 1.5 ml Oral Diarrhea due to Rota Virus Pneumococcal (PCV) – I