WHO Pakistan
Polio Eradication initiative
Report 2024
The completion of this report was made possible thanks to the 
joint eﬀorts of WHO Pakistan Communications Team and WHO 
Polio Team – under the leadership of Dr. Dapeng Luo, Dr. Zainul 
Abedin Khan, and Dr. Mohammed Ahmed Soghaier – and the 
valuable contributions of WHO technical teams working in 
close coordination with the NEOC, whose expertise and 
insights were instrumental in shaping this document. We also 
thank WHO colleagues and the NEOC for the images used in the 
report.
Overview and editing: Dr. José Ignacio Martín Galán. 
Coordination and writing: Ms. Suzanna Masih.
Design: Mr. Hamid Inam.
Acknowledgment
Acronyms  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
02
Foreword  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
03
WHO Pakistan Polio Response 2024 at a Glance 
 
 
 
04
Executive Summary  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
05
Chapter 1: Vaccination Operations  
 
 
 
 
 
07
 
1.1. Supplementary Immunization Activities (SIAs)  
 
 
 
08
 
1.2. Alternate Vaccination Strategies 
 
 
 
 
 
 
08
 
1.2.1. Comprehensive Transit Vaccination 
 
 
 
 
 
08 
 
1.2.2. Biker Strategy: Vaccination on Wheels  
 
 
 
 
09
 
1.2.3. Joint Interventions with the Expanded Programme on Immunization   
09
Chapter 2: Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
 
 
 
 
10
 
2.1. Lot Quality Assurance Sampling (LQAS)  
 
 
 
 
11
 
2.2. Post-Campaign Monitoring (PCM)  
 
 
 
 
 
11
Chapter 3: Surveillance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12
 
3.1. Acute Flaccid Paralysis (AFP) Surveillance 
 
 
 
 
13
 
3.2. Environmental Surveillance  
 
 
 
 
 
 
13
 
3.3. WHO-accredited Regional Reference Lab for Polio 
 
 
 
14
 
3.4. Poliovirus Surveillance in Patients with   
 
 
 
 
 
 
         Primary Immunodeficiency Disorders 
 
 
 
 
 
14
Chapter 4: Gender Integration in WHO Polio Eradication Initiative 15
Chapter 5: National Certification Committee  
 
 
 
16
Chapter 6: The Last Mile to End the Global Threat of Polio 
 
17
Stories from the Field 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Acronyms
02
AFP 
Acute flaccid paralysis 
EPI 
Expanded Programme on Immunization 
ES 
Environmental surveillance 
EOAs 
Extended outreach activities 
FIPV 
Fractional inactivated polio vaccine 
FLWs 
Frontline workers 
GPEI 
Global Polio Eradication Initiative 
iVDPVs 
Immunodeficiency-associated vaccine-derived polioviruses 
HRMP 
High-risk mobile populations 
KP 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
LQAS 
Lot Quality Assurance Sampling 
MMP 
Migrant and mobile populations 
NCC 
National Certification Committee  
NEAP 
National Emergency Action Plan 
NEOC 
National Emergency Operations Center 
NIDs 
National immunization days 
OBRs 
Outbreak response 
OPV 
Oral polio vaccine 
PCM 
Post-campaign monitoring 
PEI 
Polio Eradication Initiative 
PID 
Primary Immunodeficiency Disorders 
PTPs 
Permanent transit posts 
RI 
Routine immunization 
RRL 
Regional Reference Lab 
RuR 
Reaching the Unreached 
SIAs 
Supplementary Immunization Activities 
SNIDs 
Subnational immunization days 
STPs 
Seasonal transit posts 
TAG 
Technical Advisory Group 
UC 
Union council 
VRC 
Voluntary Repatriation Centers 
WPV1 
Wild poliovirus type 1 
Foreword
Today, wild polio survives in only two countries – Pakistan and 
Afghanistan. Despite challenges, combined surveillance and 
vaccination eﬀorts have succeeded in protecting millions of 
children from a lifelong paralytic disease. Since 1994, the 
Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme, led by the 
Government with support from WHO, has reduced the 
number of polio cases by more than 99%. WHO is proud to 
partner with the Government of Pakistan to run together the 
last mile to end the global threat of polio, protecting future 
generations in Pakistan and across the world.
Throughout history, polio has been a much-feared disease, leaving 
children permanently disabled or even taking their lives. Thanks to mass 
vaccinations, national commitment, and the hard work of health frontliners, today, the world 
stands on the brink of polio eradication – an excellent example of what can be achieved when 
nations, governments, scientists, health practitioners, philanthropists, and citizens work together 
for the benefit of all. 
However, challenges remain when it comes to accessing and providing vaccines to children in 
some of the most vulnerable communities. These gaps allow the virus to survive and spread. 
Interrupting polio transmission in Pakistan is critical to ending polio worldwide, and WHO will 
remain steadfast in its support to the Government to achieve a polio-free Pakistan. 
In 2024, the government-led Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme demonstrated exceptional 
resilience in the face of a resurgence of wild poliovirus. As the Government of Pakistan revitalized 
polio eradication eﬀorts under the direct oversight of His Excellency, Prime Minister Shehbaz 
Sharif, WHO remained a crucial partner. We mobilized over 14,000 WHO-associated personnel and 
over 412,000 vaccinators to immunize children. WHO also supported the expansion and 
maintenance of the largest and most sensitive poliovirus surveillance network in the world, with 
12,500 acute flaccid paralysis reporting sites, 127 environmental surveillance sites, and 81 sites to 
screen and monitor patients with primary immunodeficiency disorders and detect poliovirus. WHO 
also partnered with the Polio Programme to increase routine immunization coverage through 
collaborative eﬀorts with the Expanded Programme on Immunization.
I commend the hard work of thousands of vaccinators, WHO and partner staﬀ, campaign assessors, 
security personnel, and government counterparts at the national, provincial, and district levels to 
reach over 45 million children with the vaccine despite complex challenges like poliovirus 
resurgence, insecurity, inconsistent access to children, misinformation, vaccine hesitancy, and 
population movement. Their services to ensure the well-being of millions of children are 
invaluable.   
WHO will stand side by side with Pakistan and its partners to intensify the response and run 
together the last mile to end the global threat of polio. We will do it for our children and our 
grandchildren, because no child will be safe from polio until all children in the world are safe.
Dr Dapeng Luo
WHO Representative in Pakistan
03
45.6 M1
children under 5 
vaccinated with the oral 
polio vaccine (average).
WHO PAKISTAN POLIO RESPONSE
2024 AT A GLANCE
WHO Pakistanʼs robust polio 
workforce and supported 
structures:
934
acute flaccid paralysis 
(AFP) reporting sites 
added to the 
surveillance network.
268.4 M
doses of oral polio 
vaccine administer in 
house-to-house drives.
14,000+ 
WHO-associated personnel 
supported polio eradication 
eﬀorts.
1 M+
children vaccinated with 
the injectable polio 
vaccine.
2,037
environmental 
surveillance samples 
collected and tested at 
WHO-accredited 
Regional Reference 
Laboratory for Polio. 
10
house-to-house oral 
polio vaccine campaigns 
conducted.
412,000+
vaccinators mobilized for 
every national campaign.
17,2522
individuals mobilized 
to independently 
assess campaign 
quality and coverage.
74
polio cases confirmed 
from the reported AFP 
cases through testing at 
WHO-accredited 
Regional Reference 
Laboratory for Polio.
12,500+
acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) 
reporting sites nationwide, 127 
environmental surveillance 
points, and 81 sites for 
poliovirus surveillance in 
primary immunodeficiency 
patients – the largest and most 
sensitive poliovirus 
surveillance network globally. 
22,216
AFP cases reported 
through robust 
surveillance.
1 The same child is vaccinated multiple times, as the Polio Programme conducted multiple campaigns.
2 The number can include repetition because an individual assessor can be deployed in more than one campaign.
628
environmental 
surveillance samples 
positive for poliovirus.
04
An extensive transit vaccination strategy that immunized nearly 23 million individuals with 
polio drops, including adults who were vaccinated at international border crossings, to 
prevent the spread of poliovirus by travelers. 
Deployment of biker teams to reach nomadic children often missed in polio campaigns, as 
well as children in inaccessible areas with low vaccination rates, delivered oral and 
injectable polio vaccines to 636,000 children, and 645,000 doses of other routine vaccines – 
which help to increase immunity and protection against polio3.
Special vaccination initiatives that immunized over 800,000 children during the high-travel 
season of Ramadan and Eid, engaging parents to give polio drops to their children.
Collaborative activities with the Expanded Programme on Immunization to identify and 
vaccinate zero-dose4 children, building immunity and increasing vaccination rates.
Executive Summary
Since the launch of Pakistanʼs Polio Eradication Programme in 1994, polio cases have been 
reduced by over 99% through extensive polio vaccination campaigns and poliovirus surveillance, 
and the hard work of millions of vaccinators. However, to date, Pakistan and neighboring 
Afghanistan remain the only two countries where wild polio still survives, making it critical to 
intensify the response to end this persistent global threat to children across the planet. Pakistan, 
and the world, have an opportunity to deliver a polio-free world for future generations, but for 
that, we need to run together the last mile. No child will be safe until every child is safe.  
In 2024, WHO continued to partner with the Government of Pakistan to lead one of the largest 
polio eradication eﬀorts globally, protecting up to 45.6 million children under the age of five from 
paralytic polio through 10 house-to-house oral vaccination campaigns – three of them outbreak 
responses – and a targeted campaign that delivered the injectable polio vaccine to over 1 million 
children. In parallel, WHO supported the Polio Progamme in maintaining the largest and most 
sensitive poliovirus surveillance network in the world with over 12,500 acute flaccid paralysis 
(AFP) reporting sites nationwide, 127 environmental (wastewater) surveillance sites, and 81 sites 
to screen and monitor patients with primary immunodeficiency disorders and detect poliovirus. 
This network is supported by the WHO-accredited Regional Reference Laboratory for Polio at the 
National Institute of Health (NIH) in Islamabad, which has been declared the best in 146 
laboratories across the world by experts of the Global Polio Eradication Initiativeʼs Technical 
Advisory Group. This highly sensitive surveillance ensured the swift detection of poliovirus 
circulation, guiding decision-making on outbreak response campaigns and vaccination strategies.
Additionally, WHO supported the Government in enhancing polio and other routine vaccination 
coverages through several strategies that protected previously unreached and inaccessible 
children:
Ayesha Raza
Polio Survivor and Vaccinator, Lahore
Itʼs not easy for me to walk 
during polio campaigns due to 
my limited mobility, but I 
cannot miss the chance to 
bring hope and resilience to 
the children of Pakistan. I 
eagerly await the day when 
polio is completely eradicated, 
bringing a brighter future for 
our nation and the world.
3 Children protected with the injectable polio vaccine could be the same who received other routine doses.
4 Zero-dose children refers to those who have not yet received even a single vaccine dose. 
05
Polio resurgence 
Pakistan reported 74 polio cases in 2024 as the country faced a resurgence of wild poliovirus type 
1 (WPV1). While the absence of detection of the endemic YB3C WPV1 genetic cluster was a 
considerable success, the spread of the YB3A WPV1 genetic cluster, which was reintroduced to 
Pakistan in 2023 through cross-border transmission, remained a challenge. The virus spread to 90 
districts, reinfecting previously cleared core reservoirs in Karachi, Quetta and Peshawar, which 
then became engines of further transmission. The virus also circulated in endemic southern 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa districts and even spread to historically low-risk remote districts of 
Balochistan. 
With this drastic change in epidemiology, the Government of Pakistan revitalized polio 
eradication eﬀorts with personal oversight from the Prime Minister and the appointment of new 
leadership for the Polio Programme for improved coordination among provinces. WHO 
supported the Polio Programme in finalizing its National Emergency Action Plan 2024-25 with a 
strategic “2-4-6 roadmap” to accelerate progress. Under this umbrella, the Programme 
underwent a two-month reset in July and August with a critical reevaluation of all areas of work, 
collaborative planning with the provinces and the development of district improvement plans. 
From September to December, three large-scale vaccination campaigns were held during a 
4-month period to build a defense against virus spread. The roadmapʼs third phase began in 
January 2025. To complete the “2-4-6 Roadmap”, the Programme has planned additional 
campaigns over a period of six months to raise immunity during the low poliovirus transmission 
season, while conducting targeted interventions in virus hideouts to advance towards the 
interruption of the transmission within 2025.  
WHO also partnered with the Polio Programme to establish 934 additional acute flaccid paralysis 
(AFP) reporting sites – which contributed to increasing AFP reporting by 12% – and nine 
environmental surveillance sites in four more districts. Additionally, WHO-led Polio Programme 
teams conducted comprehensive epidemiological investigations to identify potential blind spots 
with undetected circulation and established 81 sites to screen and monitor patients with primary 
immunodeficiency disorders and detect poliovirus. 
Challenges persisted throughout 2024, including missed children, security-related access issues, 
low vaccination coverages, and population movement. The situation was particularly challenging 
in southern Khyber Pakhtunkhwaʼs endemic districts, where campaigns were often staggered or 
implemented with alterations to the recommended 3+2-day campaign duration strategy. WHO 
supported the Polio Programme in reaching children in these areas through alternate vaccination 
strategies and worked with national and local authorities to ensure consistent access. These 
eﬀorts yielded results in the second half of 2024, when all campaigns were harmonized 
throughout the country – i.e. held without any alterations to the planned dates.     
With support from WHO, Pakistan is moving forward with full determination to end the global 
threat of polio and secure a healthier future for every child, leaving no one behind.
The following chapters outline the main activities and impact of WHO interventions in support of 
the Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme during 2024.
Dr Zainul Abedin Khan
WHO Pakistan Polio Coordinator
July 2020-March 2025
Polio vaccines work and have saved millions of lives. 
However, the resurgence of wild polio in Pakistan in 2024 
was a stark reminder that our fight is not yet over. We need 
to intensify the response and run together the last mile to 
end the global threat of polio, in Pakistan and across the 
world. Despite challenges, WHO-led teams supporting the 
Polio Programme remained resilient to continue protecting 
millions of children from paralytic polio. 
06
WHO continued to support the government-led Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme in 2024, mobilizing 
over 412,000 vaccinators to immunize 45.6 million children under five with the oral polio vaccine in 10 
house-to-house campaigns and over 1 million children with the injectable vaccine in priority areas. In 
addition, over 23 million individuals, including adults at international border crossings, were vaccinated 
through a comprehensive transit vaccination strategy, while dedicated biker teams reached 636,000 
children with oral and injectable polio vaccines and administered 645,000 doses of routine vaccines 
through collaborative activities with the Expanded Programme on Immunization, increasing vaccination 
coverage and protecting childrenʼs health.  
As poliovirus spread remained intense, all 90 districts with positive detections were covered during three 
nationwide vaccination campaigns. Adhering to the Global Polio Eradication Initiativeʼs guidelines, three 
requisite response rounds were completed in 68 of 90 infected districts with additional responses ongoing 
as needed. Of these, 24 districts had no further polio detections, indicating success in stopping virus 
spread. 
Thanks to strengthened cross-border collaboration, two polio campaigns were synchronized with 
Afghanistan, while all campaigns post-June 2024 were harmonized throughout all territories in Pakistan, 
i.e. held during the same planned dates. Through increased outreach eﬀorts, the number of missed 
children decreased from 1.48 million to 1.13 million. In parallel, children unreached in campaigns due to 
security issues was reduced from 0.7 to 0.3 million. To enhance vaccination, surveillance and inclusion in 
monitoring activities of mobile populations, WHO-led Programme teams conducted an extensive exercise 
that identified and mapped 1.8 million migrant and mobile populations who were covered in subsequent 
campaigns.
Chapter 1: VACCINATION OPERATIONS
Key Data Points
45.6 M
children vaccinated on average 
with the oral polio vaccine in 
house-to-house campaigns.
1 M+
children vaccinated with the 
injectable polio vaccine during a 
targeted campaign in Karachi.
412,000
vaccinators mobilized in polio 
campaigns.
636,000+
children in nomadic and 
hard-to-reach areas received oral 
and injectable polio vaccines 
through biker teams.
645,000
doses of injectable non-polio 
routine vaccines administered 
in hard-to-reach through biker 
teams.
23 M+
individuals in transit vaccinated 
at border crossings, train 
stations, bus stands, 
checkpoints and public places 
like malls and parks.
10
house-to-house oral polio 
vaccine campaigns 
conducted.
268.4 M
doses of oral polio vaccine 
administer in house-to-house 
campaigns.
07
As Pakistan faced a poliovirus resurgence that spread to 90 districts, WHO supported the Polio Programme 
in implementing 10 house-to-house Supplementary Immunization Activities, including three nationwide, 
four subnational and three outbreak response campaigns with varying vaccination targets, reaching an 
overall average of 45.6 million children under five with polio drops and keeping them safe from the threat 
of lifelong paralysis from polio.  
In parallel, as wild poliovirus type 1 (WPV1) circulation was particularly high in Karachi, a strategic targeted 
vaccination campaign was implemented to immunize over 1 million children with the injectable polio 
vaccine – adding an immunity boost – in priority areas of Karachi, a poliovirus reservoir that drives 
transmission to other districts.
House-to-house campaigns were supplemented with several strategies to support the Government in 
increasing polio and other routine vaccine coverages to stop poliovirus transmission. Over 23 million 
individuals were immunized with polio drops through a comprehensive transit vaccination strategy, while 
WHO also supported national authorities in leading the delivery of critical polio and other routine vaccines 
to underserved communities – such as nomadic, mobile and other unreached children – through 
dedicated biker teams, leveraging joint resources and expertise of the Polio Programme and the Expanded 
Programme on Immunization.
1.1. Supplementary Immunization Activities (SIAs)
1.2. Alternate Vaccination Strategies 
Over 8.3 million children and adults were vaccinated with the oral polio vaccine by teams stationed 
year-round at permanent posts at international, interprovincial and interdistrict borders, international 
airports and railway stations. Travelers of all ages are vaccinated, in particular at crossings along the 
Pakistan-Afghanistan and Pakistan-Iran border, to prevent the international spread of wild poliovirus in line 
with the recommendations of the International Health Regulations Emergency Commission for Polio. 
Additionally, 800 teams deployed at key locations such as bus stops and hospitals, particularly during labor 
or seasonal migration, administered the oral polio vaccine to 14 million children on the move to curb the 
spread of poliovirus from high-risk areas to polio-free districts. In addition, 800,000 children were also 
vaccinated at stalls set up during the high-travel season of Ramadan and the two Eids in public places like 
parks, malls and zoos to prevent the virus from moving with people. This special initiative engaged parents 
in the fight against polio by oﬀering them the opportunity to vaccinate their children themselves at these 
vaccination stalls.  
In parallel, as the repatriation of unregistered foreigners continued, vaccination teams at Voluntary 
Repatriation Centers established by the government and UN agencies immunized over 130,000 children to 
prevent cross-border spread of poliovirus. 
1.2.1. Comprehensive Transit Vaccination
08
WHO supported the deployment of up to 91 biker teams 
under the Nomads Vaccination Initiative. These teams 
immunized 295,000 children with the oral polio vaccine, 
95,000 children with the injectable polio vaccine, and 
220,000 children with routine vaccines, reaching 
nomadic children within their settlements in 34 districts 
and ensuring coverage of 16,900 zero-dose children.
Similarly, 354 biker teams were deployed under the 
Search Team Outreach Plus Initiative in 26 districts with 
low routine immunization coverage, high numbers of 
zero-dose and under-vaccinated children, or lacking 
routine vaccinators. These bikers reached 140,000 
children with polio drops, 106,000 children with 
injectable polio vaccines, and 425,000 children with 
routine doses, while ensuring coverage of 20,600 
zero-dose children.
1.2.2. Biker Strategy: Vaccination on Wheels 
The Polio Programme supported the Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI) in the implementation 
of the third round of the “Reaching the Unreached” activity to provide polio and other routine 
immunization vaccines to children in 69 union councils of endemic southern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
districts with low routine immunization and polio coverages. The activity reached 233,831 children under 
five with the oral polio vaccine, 9,164 children with Penta-I, 9,336 children with Penta-III, 10,903 children 
with the injectable polio vaccine, and 12,802 with Measles Rubella-I. As part of this initiative, a total of 
6,518 zero-dose children were vaccinated. 
Polio teams also supported EPI in completing two “Extended Outreach Activities” in 43 high-risk union 
councils of Peshawar, providing BCG, Penta-I and Penta-III vaccines to 37,500 children who had not 
received the complete doses of their routine vaccination schedule.
During the EPI-led “Big Catch-Up” – aimed at reaching children who missed routine doses due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic or any other reason –, the Polio Programme provided support to EPI by strengthening 
microplanning, enhancing surveillance, and deploying trained workforce for vaccination campaigns. The 
Programme also facilitated capacity-building, community engagement, and real-time monitoring to 
improve immunization coverage, ensuring missed children received essential vaccines.
1.2.3. Joint Interventions with the Expanded Programme on Immunization  
Daniyal Sikandri
Nomads Vaccination Initiative
Team Member, Bannu
They [nomadic 
communities] want to 
protect their children from 
diseases too. We have 
received a lot of love from 
them. When we vaccinate 
their children, they are 
thankful and pray for us. It 
feels good that people like 
them and their children are 
also being taken care of. 
09
Key Data Points
3,000+
surveyors deployed to assess 
coverage through 
post-campaign surveys.
258,300
children assessed in 5,300+ 
union councils.
7,100
surveyors mobilized to 
conduct independent quality 
assurance sampling.
167,400
children assessed in 2,500+ 
post-campaign monitoring 
lots.
17,252
individuals mobilized for 
campaign monitoring activities. 
5 The number can include repetition because an individual assessor can be deployed in more than one campaign.
During the reporting period, WHO supported the Polio Programme in assessing the coverage and quality 
of polio campaigns by mobilizing 17,2525 individuals – including surveyors, supervisors and monitors – to 
conduct the assessment of key monitoring and evaluation (M&E) indicators, Lot Quality Assurance 
Sampling (LQAS) and Post-Campaign Monitoring (PCM). Over 258,000 children were assessed in 5,311 
union councils during LQAS assessments, while 167,000 children were assessed in 2,577 PCM lots after 
polio campaigns. Over 6,000 university students in their last year of study continued to be trained and 
engaged to conduct these surveys to ensure independent assessments, while also providing them 
meaningful field experience in public health interventions. The results and analysis of these monitoring 
and evaluation activities identified areas where children were missed for vaccination, campaign quality 
was suboptimal or coverage was low, and enabled data-driven decision-making on corrective measures 
for subsequent rounds.
Chapter 2: Monitoring and Evaluation
10
Following a polio campaign, lot quality assurance 
sampling (LQAS) is used as an informative tool to assess 
campaign quality through field surveys. Every 
campaign, a total of 60 children – one child from 10 
diﬀerent houses located in six randomly selected 
clusters – are assessed in each union council (UC). 
Depending on the number of unvaccinated children 
found in a lot, the UC performance is assessed as “pass”, 
“intermediate” or “low quality”. 
With LQAS surveys conducted in 5,311 union councils, 
258,000 children were assessed to identify areas where 
children might have been missed. In 2024 campaigns, 
the total number of union councils having obtained the 
“pass” qualification ranged from 70% in the August 
campaign to 87.5% in the March campaign.
Post-campaign monitoring (PCM) provides direct 
coverage estimates by having teams assess every child 
for polio vaccination finger marking in 30 randomly 
selected houses within designated union councils. 
Additionally, 50 children are randomly assessed through 
spot surveys conducted in the streets or in diﬀerent 
outdoor settings. While LQAS and PCM assessments may 
be conducted in the same districts, their methodologies 
remain distinct, ensuring separate evaluations of quality 
and coverage.
During 2024, 167,434 children were assessed in 2,576 
PCM lots and the pass rate varied across campaigns, 
ranging from 69.8% in the September campaign to 
86.8% in the March campaign, with an overall pass rate 
of 74.9%.
05
05
2.1. Lot Quality Assurance Sampling (LQAS)
2.2. Post-Campaign Monitoring (PCM)
11
Throughout the reporting period, WHO partnered with the Government of Pakistan to maintain the largest 
and most-sensitive poliovirus surveillance network in the world with over 12,500 acute flaccid paralysis 
(AFP) reporting sites across the country, 127 environmental surveillance sampling sites in 87 districts, and 
81 sites to screen and monitor patients with primary immunodeficiency disorders and detect 
poliovirus. In 2024, this robust surveillance network detected 74 polio cases and 628 sewage samples 
positive for wild poliovirus. It was critical in identifying geographic blind spots of virus transmission and 
areas with low routine vaccination coverage, while detecting atypical, asymptomatic and even mild 
paralysis cases which might otherwise have been missed. Surveillance data enabled the Polio Programme 
to plan eﬀective evidence-based strategies in all aﬀected areas. 
After the detection of several orphan polioviruses (viruses detected in sewage samples that lack recent 
genetic links to known human or environmental cases, indicating gaps in surveillance or undetected 
transmission), the Surveillance Unit conducted a comprehensive exercise to assess the risk of missed 
transmission due to surveillance gaps. This led to identify districts with high probability of undetected 
transmission and develop an action plan for strengthening surveillance. Based on data of surveillance 
indicators, population dynamics and local vaccination coverage rates, 40 districts nationwide were 
identified as high-risk for transmission, and action plans were developed to enhance surveillance in these 
areas.
In parallel, LogTag devices, real-time temperature monitoring devices, continued to be used for all 
samples shipped to the laboratory to ensure eﬀective control of the reverse cold chain during 
transportation. More than 98% of samples delivered with LogTags had optimal reverse cold chain, 
ensuring sample quality reliability and enhancing the probability of virus detection.
Chapter 3: Surveillance
Key Data Points
127
environmental surveillance 
sites in 87 districts (9 added 
in 2024).
12,500
acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) 
reporting sites (934 added in 
2024). 
22,216
acute flaccid paralysis cases 
reported for wild poliovirus 
testing, of which 74 were positive.
81
sites for poliovirus surveillance in 
patients with primary immunodeficiency 
(established in 2024).
2,037
environmental samples collected 
for testing, of which 628 were 
positive for wild poliovirus.
12
Pakistanʼs acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) surveillance network consists of over 12,500 government and 
private health facilities, informal and traditional healthcare providers, and more than 150,000 community 
informants that report any case of sudden weakness or paralysis in children under 15 to the Polio 
Programme for poliovirus testing. Stool samples collected from 22,216 AFP cases and 11,012 contacts in 
2024 were tested at the WHO-accredited Regional Reference Lab for Polio at no cost to the family, 
confirming 74 polio cases. Further genetic sequencing determined the genetic cluster and lineages of the 
detected virus to trace its origins and transmission chains, which also helped in identifying infected 
geographies. Key highlights of AFP surveillance for 2024 include: 
Expansion: With the addition of 934 more AFP reporting sites, the AFP surveillance network grew to 
over 12,500 reporting sites, increasing AFP reporting by 12% – from 19,772 in 2023 to 22,216 in 2024.
Community-based Surveillance: The training and addition of 57,375 community informants and 
8,602 health facility-based AFP focal persons strengthened surveillance at the community level, 
particularly in hard-to-access, riverine and security-compromised areas, leading to 2,423 AFP cases 
reported through communities.
Contact Sampling: 11,012 contact samples were collected for all inadequate AFP cases6 and AFP 
cases reported from mobile populations, access-compromised and hard to reach areas, as well as 
Afghan refugees. In total, 20 out of 74 polio cases were confirmed through contact sampling.
Healthy Stool Sampling: Stool samples were collected from 25 healthy children from Sujawal 
district of Sindh to rule out missed poliovirus circulation after an orphan virus was detected in 
sewage samples. All 25 stool samples were negative for poliovirus. Healthy stool sampling is 
conducted in areas where high-risk and vulnerable populations reside, but poliovirus is not being 
detected through any surveillance source, which implies a risk of undetected circulation.
The WHO-supported environmental surveillance network in Pakistan is the largest in the world with 127 
sites in 87 districts from where wastewater samples are collected every month for poliovirus testing. 
Programme teams collected 2,037 wastewater samples, of which 628 tested positive for polio, identifying 
areas where the virus is circulating in aﬀected populations and enabling the Polio Programme to plan 
appropriate outbreak response activities. Key highlights of environmental surveillance include: 
Expansion: In 2024, nine more sampling sites were added in four more districts, expanding the ES 
network to 127 sites in 87 districts.
One-time Sampling: 38 one-time environmental samples were collected and tested from high-risk 
mobile populations and access-compromised areas in Balochistan and Sindh to detect circulation. 
Six of these were positive from Sindh, prompting their inclusion in subsequent vaccination rounds.
3.2. Environmental Surveillance 
3.1. Acute Flaccid Paralysis (AFP) Surveillance 
Dr Sarwat Wajahat Sheikh
WHO Disease Surveillance Oﬀicer,
Malir, Karachi
Disease surveillance is a powerful tool to level 
the playing field, to bend the arc of our country 
away from poliovirus and move towards a 
polio-free Pakistan. As a public health worker, a 
polio-free Pakistan is my highest priority and a 
dream to realize.
6 An AFP case is considered inadequate when two stool samples, which are supposed to be taken 24 hours apart, cannot be collected within 14 days of the onset of weakness or paralysis 
for any reason.
13
The WHO-accredited Regional Reference Lab for Polio (RRL), housed at the National Institute of Health 
(NIH), Islamabad, supported poliovirus surveillance through swift and accurate testing of all stool and 
wastewater samples, as well as genetic sequencing and analysis, to identify genetic and geographic 
linkages of detected viruses. The laboratory also supported poliovirus surveillance in Afghanistan through 
stool sample testing and wastewater sample testing. Key highlights of the work of the laboratory during 
2024 include:
Testing for Pakistan and Afghanistan: The laboratory tested 55,0037 stool and 2,037 
environmental samples from Pakistan, as well as 12,417 stool and 505 environmental samples from 
Afghanistan.  
Sample Monitoring: 34,828 carriers of stool samples from acute flaccid paralysis cases and 2,000 
carriers of wastewater samples shipped to the lab were monitored using LogTags. Out of these, 13 
sewage samples and 522 stool samples with temperature breach were recollected and tested, 
which confirmed one wild poliovirus type 1 (WPV1) case from Jhal Magsi, Balochistan.
3.3. WHO-accredited Regional Reference Lab for Polio
With WHOʼs support, the Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme expanded its surveillance network in 2024 
with the launch of nationwide surveillance for poliovirus in patients with primary immunodeficiency 
disorders (PID). This marked a transition from a five-year pilot study led by Aga Khan University, which 
aimed to identify suspected cases of primary immunodeficiency and monitor potential transmitters of the 
immunodeficiency-associated vaccine-derived poliovirus (iVDPV). 
Immunodeficiency-associated vaccine-derived polioviruses (iVDPVs) can emerge in individuals with 
primary immunodeficiency, due to a mutation of the virus in their intestinal tract. These persons may shed 
the poliovirus for long periods after receiving the oral polio vaccine, increasing risk of transmission. 
Therefore, for polio-free certification, countries must demonstrate comprehensive poliovirus surveillance, 
including acute flaccid paralysis and environmental surveillance, and surveillance among patients with 
PID to detect possible iVDPVs. In 2024, PID surveillance was transitioned to the WHO-supported 
surveillance unit at the National Emergency Operations Center (NEOC), which began the formal national 
rollout of iVDPV surveillance embedded within PID surveillance. Across the country, 81 sentinel hospitals 
have been identified, engaging clinicians to screen and report suspected PID cases to the Polio 
Programme. Blood testing is facilitated for these patients to confirm PID diagnoses. Once confirmed, stool 
sampling is initiated to detect poliovirus excretion. If poliovirus is detected, monthly stool tests are 
conducted until the virus is no longer detected.
To date, 591 suspected PID cases have been identified, with 124 confirmed PID cases monitored by 
national, provincial, and district surveillance teams. The integration of iVDPV surveillance in the broader 
poliovirus surveillance strategy has strengthened Pakistanʼs ability to identify and follow prolonged 
transmitters of iVDPV and aims to minimize the risk of undetected virus transmission.
3.4. Poliovirus Surveillance in patients with primary immunodeficiency disorder (PID)
7 These numbers include the overall stool samples processed by the WHO-accredited Regional Reference Lab for Polio for AFP cases, contact sampling and healthy children 
stool sampling.
14
Adopting a gender-responsive approach in line with the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI)ʼ s Gender 
Equality Strategy 2019–2026, WHO continues to integrate gender in its polio operations and support gender 
mainstreaming in the Pakistan Polio Programme through a focus on recruiting more women in the 
workforce in technical, operational and decision-making roles, as well as recruiting women in field 
supervisory cadres of frontline workers, especially in areas where cultural sensitivities make it diﬀicult for 
male-only vaccination teams to access children in households.
In 2024, collaboration between the NEOC Gender Working Group (GWG) and the WHO Gender Management 
Group (GMG) drove positive implementation eﬀorts, building on past progress and focusing on future 
impact. Key gender-related interventions included: 
Integration of gender training and materials in various technical trainings.
Development and distribution of gender-responsive communication material to be used in campaign 
training for frontline workers. In parallel, content on gender sensitivity and how to maintain a 
respectful workplace has also been included in the technical training booklet prepared for 
community-based vaccinators. In addition, 400,000 brochures promoting a respectful workplace were 
distributed nationwide among frontline vaccinators.
Implementation of one of the recommendations that came out of listening sessions with frontline 
workers with WHO distributing around 60,000 flasks and umbrellas to frontline workers to protect 
them from harsh weather while they work. 
The WHO-led operations team at NEOC collaborated with the NEOC Gender Working Group to develop 
comprehensive safety guidelines for frontline workers, create ID cards, and establish a clear overview 
of Team Support Centers where these vaccinators work.
To eﬀectively tackle workplace safety concerns, especially those impacting female health workers, the 
Gender Working Group has successfully developed an Anti-Harassment Policy which firmly aligns with 
the national anti-harassment law and has been endorsed by the NEOC and the Ministry of National 
Health Services, Regulations and Coordination. Implementation is expected to begin in 2025.
 
Chapter 4: Gender in WHO PEI 
Working in the Polio Programme empowers women, giving them 
confidence and the ability to support their families financially. Some 
of our vaccinators are the primary providers for their households, 
managing their homes through this work. We also receive respect 
from the communities we serve. People welcome us into their homes, 
oﬀering food and water, especially during the scorching summer 
months when we work in harsh weather conditions.
15
Tina
Area-Incharge, Islamabad
Expansion of environmental surveillance sites to ensure no missed circulation.
Enhanced acute flaccid paralysis surveillance, particularly in inaccessible areas.
A comparison of routine immunization rates with previous years to monitor trends.
Increased coordination with the Expanded Programme on Immunization (EPI) and additinal 
support to EPI initiatives from the Polio Programme.
WHO supported the Programme in implementing these recommendations through:
Addition of nine environmental surveillance sampling sites in priority districts.
Enhanced training and engagement with health practitioners and community informants to report 
acute flaccid paralysis (AFP) cases, adding over 900 AFP reporting sites and 50,000 
community-based informants.
Collection and testing of one-time environmental samples, particularly in districts without 
environmental sampling sites, to detect circulation. 
Continued support to the Expanded Programme on Immunization in implementing its outreach 
activities and the third round of “Reaching the Unreached” activity in priority districts of southern 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
The National Certification Committee (NCC) – an independent body that evaluates Pakistanʼs readiness for 
polio-free certification and submits progress reports to the WHO EMRO Regional Certification Commission – 
convened biannual meetings in 2024, reviewing the Polio Programmeʼs progress and advising on the 
improvements needed to meet the requirements for certification. 
The NCC, comprised of leading experts in pediatrics, immunization and neurology appointed by the 
national government in consultation with WHO Pakistan, reviewed the epidemiology, campaign 
performance, surveillance indicators and coverage data shared by the Programme. It also assessed 
whether population immunity was high enough to prevent circulation, the sensitivity of the surveillance 
network to detect any virus, the countryʼs risk assessment and risk mitigation strategies, as well as 
preparedness to respond to outbreaks. The Committee also assessed if the country had minimized the risks 
of reintroduction of poliovirus through virus handling facilities. 
The main recommendations included:
Chapter 5: National Certification Committee
16
Implementation of three nationwide polio campaigns in the first half of 2025 to immunize more 
than 45 million children under five, maintaining a strong focus on ensuring consistent vaccination 
of all target children.
Continued implementation of polio campaigns and alternate outreach strategies driven by risk 
assessments, population movement dynamics and epidemiology, focusing on consistently 
reaching children on the move or in inaccessible areas.
Further strengthening of surveillance through continued engagements with physicians and 
community-based formal and informal practitioners on acute flaccid paralysis reporting, 
enhancing eﬀorts to identify any and all blind spots of surveillance and filling the gaps.
Ensuring epidemiology, risk assessments, risk modelling, genetic sequencing and data of lineages 
continues to be leveraged for analyses and eﬀective interventions.
Strengthening routine immunization through integrated Polio Programme and Expanded 
Programme on Immunization eﬀorts and activities, particularly in underserved areas at high risk 
for polio transmission, to break pockets of unvaccinated or under-vaccinated children and leave 
no place for the virus to hide and spread.  
Prioritizing vaccination and surveillance eﬀorts in endemic and outbreak-prone districts as well as 
supporting integrated service delivery activities implemented by partners.
As wild poliovirus circulation remained intense in 2024 with detections in 90 districts, the Polio 
Programme, with WHOʼs support, positioned itself to take advantage of the low-transmission season 
before May 2025 to conduct high-quality vaccination campaigns and raise childrenʼs immunity levels. The 
Polio Programme objective was to reduce the number of cases and advance towards the interruption of 
the transmission.  
WHO will continue to support the Polio Programme in ensuring the full implementation of the National 
Emergency Action Plan 2024-25 through the following main actions:
As a founding and implementing partner of the Global Polio Eradication Initiative (GPEI), WHO stands with 
Pakistan and its partners to provide the highest-quality technical, planning, and operational support to 
run together the last mile towards polio eradication. Ending the global threat of polio is a health 
imperative in a context in which the cost of inaction would be higher than the cost of action, since no child 
in the world will be safe from polio until all children are safe.
Chapter 6: The last mile to end the global threat of polio
17
“Itʼs not easy for me to walk during polio campaigns due to my limited mobility, but I cannot miss the 
chance to bring hope and resilience to the children of Pakistan.” Polio eradication is a personal mission 
for Ayesha Raza, a Pakistani polio survivor and health worker whose remarkable commitment earned her 
global recognition at the Golden Jubilee Ceremony of the Islamic Development Bank – a polio 
eradication donor – which took place in Saudi Arabia in 2024. Every year, Ayesha is one of the 400,000 
vaccinators who go door-to-door to implement massive Government-led vaccination campaigns, 
supported by the World Health Organization (WHO) and partners, to protect over 45 million children 
against paralytic polio in Pakistan.  
Ayesha was only two years old when she contracted polio in the 1990s, when Pakistan did not have a 
dedicated polio programme. Since then, vaccinators like Ayesha have been vital in reducing the number 
of polio cases by 99.6%. With her left leg paralyzed and diﬀiculty in walking, she endured a challenging 
childhood. But she refused to let this disability define her. She turned to a career as a health worker, 
while also volunteering for the Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme.
She works as a vaccinator and social mobilizer in Lahore, transforming her struggles into a powerful 
example to convince hesitant parents to vaccinate their children to protect them from lifelong disability. 
"I eagerly await the day when polio is completely eradicated, bringing a brighter future for our nation and 
the world.”
STORIES FROM THE FIELD
Ayesha, the polio survivor protecting Pakistani children from disability
18
In the rough mountainous terrain of Lakki Marwat, two brave 
Pashtun women, Bakht Roza and Basmina, navigate remote, 
security-compromised areas on motorbikes to vaccinate 
children against 12 deadly diseases, including polio. Working in 
Bettani Subdivision, where health services are scarce, they are 
the sole source of essential immunization for children and 
expecting mothers.
Deployed under the Nomads Vaccination Initiative – launched in 
2022 to vaccinate nomadic children who often miss polio and 
routine vaccinations due to frequent movement – Bakht Roza 
and Basmina travel vast distances and overcome cultural 
barriers to protect children from terrible diseases. They have 
vaccinated nearly 2,800 children, convinced over 200 refusal 
families to accept immunization, and administered tetanus 
vaccinations for pregnant women who were previously not 
receiving vaccination at the local health facility because only a 
male vaccinator was available. 
Braving harsh terrain, falls from bikes, and community 
resistance, they remain steadfast. “We think of all the children in 
the community who need our help as our own children, and that 
motivates us to keep going,” says Bakht Roza.
Their story is a testament to the resilience and dedication of 
female vaccinators who ensure that every child has the chance 
for a healthy future. 
By Muhammad Shoaib, Peshawar
“As a public health worker, a polio-free Pakistan is my highest 
priority and a dream to realize.” Making Pakistan polio-free is a 
priority for Dr Sarwat Wajahat Sheikh, a WHO Disease 
Surveillance Oﬀicer (DSO) in Karachiʼs Malir district. Her hard 
work and exceptional commitment to identifying and 
investigating polio cases in her district was recognized by the 
Government of Sindh on World Polio Day 2024. 
In 2017, Dr Sarwat joined WHO in Sindhʼs Dadu district, where 
she played a key role in strengthening poliovirus and 
vaccine-preventable disease surveillance. In 2021, she was 
transferred to Karachi, where dense population, frequent 
migration, and pockets of vaccine resistance, especially in 
underserved communities, make poliovirus circulation a 
persistent challenge. There, Dr Sarwat contributed to expanding 
surveillance sites from 43 to 93, and mobilized 152 community 
informants to improve polio case detection. 
In 2024, she faced one of her toughest cases in Ibrahim Hyderi, a largely slum community of mostly 
laborers and fishermen, where a child – possibly aﬀected by polio – had unfortunately passed away. The 
family was hesitant to cooperate with the Pakistan Polio Programmeʼs case investigation teams. 
Undeterred, Dr Sarwat spent weeks building trust with the parents, ultimately convincing them to let the 
teams collect stool samples from other children in the family to rule out polio. Her eﬀorts led to the 
confirmation of the first polio case in the area in 10 years, triggering an urgent vaccination response to 
protect all children in the community. This work earned her special recognition from the provincial 
government. “Disease surveillance is a powerful tool to level the playing field, to bend the arc of our 
country away from poliovirus and move towards a polio-free Pakistan.”
By Dawood Batozai, Karachi
Brave women on motorbikes to reach nomadic children
WHO Disease Surveillance Officer Recognized for Breakthrough Case Detection 
19
Pakistan
Country Oﬀice
Chak Shahzad, Islamabad,
Pakistan.
World Health Organization
