EVERY CHILD SURVIVES 
AND THRIVES - HEALTH
Country Programme of Cooperation 
between the Government of Pakistan 
and UNICEF 2018-2022
Copyright © UNICEF Pakistan 
Printed in May 2019
For more information contact 
Catherine Weibel 
Chief of Communication & Advocacy, cweibel@unicef.org 
or Abdul Sami Malik
Communication Specialist, asmalik@unicef.org
Photos by Asad Zaidi, A. Sami Malik and Saiyna Bashir 
OVERVIEW
EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES - HEALTH
EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES - NUTRITION
EVERY CHILD LEARNS
EVERY CHILD IS PROTECTED FROM VIOLENCE AND 
EXPLOITATION
EVERY CHILD LIVES IN A SAFE AND CLEAN 
ENVIRONMENT
PROGRAMME EFFECTIVENESS
ADOLESCENTS
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT
RESULTS FOR CHILDREN
Country Programme of Cooperation between the 
Government of Pakistan and UNICEF
2018-2022
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
3
OVERVIEW
UNICEF works together with the Government of Pakistan to ensure 
that the most disadvantaged newborns and children can benefit from 
integrated maternal, newborn and child health interventions, and 
healthy behaviours by 2022. UNICEF is prioritising newborn survival 
and immunization in 2018-2022 to ensure that every child survives and 
thrives. 
Newborn mortality
The national neonatal mortality rate in Pakistan is 42 per 1,000 live 
births, while the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) aim for 
12 per 1,000 live births.1 Newborn girls and boys continue to die of 
conditions that could be managed within households, such as low 
birth weight, hypothermia and sepsis, as well as from conditions 
that require interventions in health facilities such as birth asphyxia 
and prematurity. Neonatal survival is further complicated by poorly 
performing cross-sectoral family care practices and interventions, 
including sub-optimal breastfeeding, hygiene and sanitation. Only 69 
per cent of births are attended by skilled birth attendants, and the 
rate of exclusive breastfeeding for children younger than six months is 
low — only 38 per cent. The limited access to life-saving interventions 
is further complicated by huge disparities between provinces, rural 
and urban locations, income, and levels of education, particularly of 
mothers. 
In December 2018, Pakistan’s National Assembly passed a resolution 
in which it recognized the rights of every child born in Pakistan as 
well as mothers.² In particular, the Assembly resolved that “the State 
must ensure the provision of the best available early care and safe 
environment for all children. The House also recognized the importance 
of the first thousand days of every child’s life, starting from conception, 
which is a unique period of opportunity for brain development and 
laying foundations of optimum health and future growth of children.”
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
4
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
5
Routine immunization
Universal and full immunization of children is crucial to reducing infant 
and child mortality and morbidity. While there is still a long way to go, 
the good news is that vaccination coverage in Pakistan has gradually 
increased from 35 per cent in 1990 to 66 per cent in 2018. It is 
encouraging that the percentage of children not receiving any of the 
six basic immunizations has decreased substantially since 1990, from 
28 per cent to only 4 per cent in 2018.
UNICEF has continued to provide the Government of Pakistan 
with vital support to implement the national Expanded Program on 
Immunization (EPI), including planning, monitoring, procurement, as 
well as improving the governance, resourcing and supply chain of 
the immunization system. On the demand side, the work focuses 
on advocacy and social mobilization. It is also focused on introducing 
innovations to achieve wide-scale results. The concept of equity — 
reaching the hardest-to-reach children and the less privileged — 
underpins everything UNICEF does to ensure that children in Pakistan 
survive and thrive.
Polio
Pakistan is one of three remaining polio-endemic countries in the 
world, along with Afghanistan and Nigeria. Since the launch of 
Pakistan’s Polio Eradication Programme in 1994, there has been a 
massive decline in polio cases from approximately 20,000 every year 
in the early 1990s to only eight cases in 2018. However, high-risk areas 
have remained reservoirs and the porous border with neighbouring 
Afghanistan requires continued concerted action.
An array of approaches and tools are implemented to help Pakistan 
reach the finish line of zero polio cases, with strong support from 
the government and the coordinated efforts of partners, including 
UNICEF. These approaches and tools are outlined in the National 
Emergency Action Plan of the Pakistan Polio Eradication Programme 
(NEAP). Given the frequent population movements between Pakistan 
and Afghanistan, the programme synchronizes and coordinates its 
operations with the Afghan Polio Eradication Programme. 
Strengthened links between routine immunisation 
and polio
Links between routine immunization and polio have been strengthened 
under a federal taskforce, multiplying benefits for children. In 2018, 
UNICEF supported nearly 19,000 polio community health workers in 
the 11 districts with the lowest immunization coverage in 2018. They 
devoted a quarter of their time to mobilizing communities for routine 
immunization, identifying and referring children with no vaccinations 
against any disease. For example, polio workers supported Pakistan’s 
October 2018 national measles campaign. During the five annual polio 
immunization campaigns, over 260,000 volunteer social mobilizers 
identified non-immunized children and referred them for routine 
vaccination. However, immense variations in successful referrals were 
seen, from 99 per cent in the Punjab province to as low as 4-16 per 
cent in Sindh where coordination between polio and EPI teams was 
weak in comparison. Nevertheless, innovations in immunization are 
collectively increasing routine immunization coverage, offering great 
promise as service delivery is strengthened.
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
6
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
7
GLOBAL 
TARGET
SDG 3: Sustainable Development Goal 3 aims to 
ensure healthy lives and well-being for all, including 
ending preventable deaths of newborns and 
children under 5 years of age. All countries aim to 
reduce neonatal mortality to at least as low as 12 
per 1,000 live births and under-5 mortality to at least 
as low as 25 per 1,000 live births by 2030. This also 
means strengthening routine immunization with a 
target of 90 per cent of children 12-23 months old 
fully immunized by 2020.
UNICEF 
PAKISTAN 
TARGET
By 2022, the most disadvantaged newborns and 
children benefit from integrated newborn and child 
health interventions and healthy behaviour.
EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
For every 1,000 babies that are born alive, 
42 die as newborns and 62 die before age 1.
Today, 74 in every 1,000 Pakistani children 
born alive die before their 5th birthday. This is 
why, from the Federal Ministry of Health and 
provincial authorities to the medical personnel, 
front-line workers and social mobilizers on the 
ground, everyone in Pakistan works to ensure 
that children no longer die of preventable 
disease. Our goal is to ensure that every child 
can survive and thrive.
Aida Girma
UNICEF Representative in Pakistan
“
“
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
8
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
9
UNICEF is working to ensure that the most at-risk newborns and 
children benefit from integrated newborn and child health interventions 
and healthy behaviours. We also support the Government of Pakistan to 
reach its target to provide integrated health services for newborns and 
children under the age of one in the most disadvantaged communities, 
in line with its national and global commitments.
HOW UNICEF WILL HELP ACHIEVE RESULTS
If the policies, standards, guidelines and action plans on neonatal 
and child survival are planned and implemented with evidence-
based data and based on verification from provinces, especially 
data from disadvantaged communities…
If political support and commitment are the driving forces behind 
setting accountability measures for improving health service 
delivery and demand creation…
If a health communication and promotion structure and system 
is operationalised to strengthen social mobilization and behaviour 
change communication to achieve our targets for health service 
delivery and demand creation…
If there is practical coordination and synergy between relevant 
sectors (Health, Polio, WASH and Nutrition) to improve access and 
utilization of basic services in disadvantaged communities…
If regular monitoring and evaluation is a standard practice within 
the health programme to check progress, periodically improve the 
programme design, and measure the interventions’ impact for 
knowledge sharing, scale-up and replication…
…Then the most disadvantaged newborns and children will be 
benefiting from integrated newborn and child health interventions 
and healthy behaviours.
THEORY OF CHANGE
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
10
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
11
DATA PROFILE
Trends in childhood mortality
Deaths per 1,000
1990-91 PDHS
2006-07 PDHS
2012-13 PDHS
2017-18 PDHS
Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan.
Neonatal 
mortality
Infant 
mortality
Under-5 
mortality
49
54
55
42
86
78
94
112
74
62
74
89
Newborn and child mortality
The overall under-5 mortality rate has declined steadily -- from 112 
deaths per 1,000 live births in 1984-1989  to 74 deaths per 1,000 live 
births in the most recent five-year period.³
Infant mortality under age 1 has decreased from 86 to 62 deaths per 
1,000 live births over the same periods. Though neonatal mortality 
stagnated at 55 deaths per 1,000 live births for nearly a decade 
between 2006 and 2013, it has declined to 42 deaths per 1,000 live 
births in the most recent five-year period.⁴
Vaccination coverage
Full vaccination coverage has improved over the past five years from 54 
per cent to 66 per cent, meaning that two-thirds of Pakistani children 
are now fully immunized. However, 4 per cent of children aged 12-23 
months have not received any of the six basic vaccinations — a slight 
reduction in the past five years, but a remaining challenge. 
Trends in childhood vaccinations 
Percentage
1990-91 PDHS
2006-07 PDHS
2012-13 PDHS
2017-18 PDHS
All basic vaccinations
No vaccinations
Note: Excludes Azad Jammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan.
35
28
47
6
54
5
66
4
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
12
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
13
ACCELERATING CHANGE IN PAKISTAN 
Maternal health care
Maternal health care is improving steadily. Currently 69 per cent of 
births are attended by skilled birth attendants.
Trends in maternal healthcare 
Percentage
ANC by a skilled 
provider
26
61
73
86
17
39
52
69
13
34
48
66
Birth occurred in a 
health facility
Birth attended by a 
skilled provider
1990-91 PDHS
2006-07 PDHS
2012-13 PDHS
2017-18 PDHS
Note: Excludes Azad Jaammu and Kashmir and Gilgit Baltistan.
Keeping every child alive: targeting quality care in 
health facilities and at home
Given that the Ministry of National Health Services & Regulation 
(MoNHSR) has an important role in the attainment of health goals, 
and given the focus on dignified maternal care in UNICEF’s global 
Gender Action Plan, UNICEF supported the Ministry to develop and 
disseminate a strategic and accountability framework on quality of 
care at time of birth. These were disseminated to the provinces for 
discussion by the media, universities, health facilities and Provincial 
Healthcare Commissions in Punjab, Sindh and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
(KP). Provincial frameworks and plans were produced. The national 
"Reproductive Maternal Newborn Child Adolescent Health and 
Nutrition Strategy" and its costed plan were finalized in 2018 with 
technical support from UNICEF and WHO. Using this as a reference 
and incorporating new evidence and analytics, Punjab, Sindh and 
KP developed and endorsed newborn survival strategies and costed 
plans, including a Punjab policy on home visits for newborns based on 
a successful UNICEF-supported pilot.
With UNICEF support, the Governments of Sindh (all districts) 
and Punjab (five districts) strengthened health facilities to provide 
lifesaving services by localizing the "Global Action Plan for Pneumonia 
and Diarrhoea". In 2018, 2,421 health facilities were strengthened 
for management of diarrhoea and pneumonia using the integrated 
Management of Childhood Illness approach.5
National measles campaign
A 12-day national measles campaign was successfully conducted 
by the MoNHSR in October 2018 with UNICEF support, reaching 37 
million children aged 9-59 months, exceeding initial targets. Despite 
challenges with funding, cascade training and quality assurance, the 
high coverage is partly attributable to stronger micro-planning and 
deployment of 163 people trained in the use of UNICEF’s RapidPro 
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
14
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
15
tool for monitoring and rapid course correction. UNICEF worked on 
the campaign in close partnership with provincial health departments, 
WHO and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance.
Polio
During the five annual polio immunization campaigns in 2018, more 
than 260,000 volunteer social mobilizers identified un-immunized 
children and referred them for routine vaccinations. Under the Polio 
Eradication Initiative, UNICEF procured 349 million doses of oral 
and injectable polio vaccine, supporting scheduled and emergency 
response activities. Each of the five national campaigns vaccinated 
38 million children, and five subnational campaigns vaccinated 20 
million children. UNICEF also expanded its successful community-
based vaccination approach to cover all 594 union councils in core 
polio reservoirs, deploying nearly 25,000 locally-recruited, trusted 
frontline workers (of whom 87 per cent were women). These reduced 
the proportion of never-vaccinated children and contributed to the drop 
from four to two in reservoirs of wild poliovirus cases.
Immunization dropout rates are highest among the most marginalized 
and vulnerable Pakistani children, with huge disparities between 
provinces and according to whether the child lives in a rural or an 
urban setting. For instance, while full immunization coverage in the 
Punjab province stands at 80 per cent, it reaches only 29 per cent in 
the Balochistan province – less than one-third of children.⁶ Urban areas 
appear to do significantly better on full immunization at 71 per cent 
than rural areas at 63 per cent.7
EQUITY
All vaccines
Punjab
Sindh
Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa
Balochistan
ICT 
Islamabad
Former -FATA
Azad Jammu 
and Kashmir
Gilgit 
Baltistan
80
1
49
6
55
5
29
24
68
2
30
7
75
1
57
5
No vaccines
92
69
71
86
72
75
80
62
67
56
35
38
94
84
87
71
49
52
90
62
64
80
62
64
Vaccination coverage 
Maternal healthcare 
Birth occurred in a health facility
Birth attended by a skilled provider
ANC by a skilled provider
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
16
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
17
Enabling environment
•	Insufficient prioritization by decision and policy makers on the 
importance of investing in primary and preventive health care, 
including against diarrhoea and pneumonia.
•	Need to improve coordination among the Ministry of National 
Health Services, Regulation & Coordination and provincial 
governments.
•	Need to improve coordination among partners at the federal level 
and in provinces.
•	Need to strengthen governance and accountability mechanisms.
•	Build capacity of the Health Management Information System 
(HMIS) at the federal level and in provinces with more data, 
disaggregated by gender and age.
•	Advocacy for regulation of the private sector as it is a significant 
health services provider.
CHALLENGES
Supply — Availability of essential commodities 
and services
•	There is weak integration of gender-responsive service delivery in 
health facilities and in communities.
•	Supply chain management capacity and systems need to be 
strengthened to ensure adequate, consistent supply of essential 
health commodities.
•	Storage capacities and reliable cold chain for vaccines and other 
essential medicines, such as pneumonia and diarrhorea, needs to 
be expanded and maintained.
•	There are shortages of skilled health workers, Lady Health Workers 
(female community health workers), vaccinators and female 
frontline community health workers.
•	Logistic support for outreach services and referrals needs to be 
improved.
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
18
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
19
Knowledge and demand for services
•	Government capacity needs to be increased in the provinces and 
districts for social mobilization, behaviour change communication, 
and demand generation need.
•	High transportation costs, out-of-pocket expenditures and fees for 
services in the private sector inhibit women from accessing health 
care services.
•	Women's lack of mobility, very limited access to resources, and 
lack of time due to multiple responsibilities in daily life make it 
difficult for them to access and attain adequate healthcare services.
•	Household decision-makers follow traditional practices such as no 
antenatal care and home delivery of babies.
Quality
•	Execution of regular routines such as provinces' and districts' 
reviews, monitoring and supervision need to be improved.
•	Minimum service delivery and quality of care standards for maternal 
newborn care and immunization need to be strongly established.
LOOKING FORWARD
Three deprivations are common to all provinces in Pakistan: (1) poor 
access to safe deliveries for newborn and maternal survival; (2) poor 
access to quality immunization services for protection against vaccine-
preventable diseases; and (3) poor access to quality child health care 
services, particularly for diseases causing high mortality.
UNICEF's goal is that by 2022, the most at-risk mothers, newborns 
and children benefit from integrated health interventions and healthy 
behaviours. The Health programme collaborates with the Nutrition and 
WASH programmes to support Pakistan’s National Health Vision for 
2016-2025.  
Ensuring access to quality immunization services:
UNICEF prioritizes the highest polio-risk districts, urban slums and 
union councils, targeting 800,000 children under the age of 1 year. 
We are supporting provincial health departments to deliver an 
integrated package encompassing immunization, neonatal services 
and prevention of pneumonia, diarrhoea and HIV. To reach all children, 
immunization programming will shift the focus to continuously missed 
children, including those in urban informal settlements. Priority is 
being given to supporting female frontline workers to reach these 
children. The goal is to achieve and sustain zero cases, leading to the 
interruption of virus transmission and to the certification of Pakistan 
as a polio-free country. UNICEF community-based vaccinators in the 
core reservoir zones will support the strengthening of immunization 
and healthcare systems. 
Ensuring access to safe deliveries for newborns and addressing 
the high maternal mortality rate: 
UNICEF is supporting provincial ministries of health to improve 
access to and quality of care at health facilities and in communities. 
The objectives are the improved survival of women during delivery, 
the prevention of stillbirths and neonatal survival rates. Enhanced 
accountabilities for quality of care among healthcare providers and 
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
20
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
21
managers is promoted. Priority is given to high-impact healthcare 
practices and to working with Lady Health Workers. Civil society 
partnerships are used to influence positive behaviours among parents 
and other caregivers, while creating demand for skilled care. The Health 
programme also strengthens the capacity for planning, monitoring and 
quality assurance, co-creates evidence, and advocates for increased 
and sustained government budgets for maternal and newborn care 
and immunization. 
Working across sectors: 
The synergy between efforts to eradicate polio and increase routine 
immunization enables UNICEF to leverage and utilize existing 
platforms to serve previously unreached children. The Polio Eradication 
Initiative’s large team of social mobilizers reaches children within high-
risk communities at their doorstep, many in insecure areas or those 
characterized by low trust in vaccinations. UNICEF is leveraging their 
access to identify and target zero-dose children. As a result, previously 
unreached groups of children received routine vaccinations and the 
offer of the polio vaccine to communities was enhanced, reducing the 
impact of vaccination fatigue. 
•	 Situation Analysis of Children in Pakistan, 2017
www.unicef.org/pakistan/reports/situation-analysis-children-
pakistan
•	 Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 2017-2018
National Institute of Population Studies Islamabad, Pakistan: 
https://dhsprogram.com/pubs/pdf/PR109/PR109.pdf
•	 Capture the Moment: Early initiation of breastfeeding – the 
best start for every newborn
UNICEF, 2018: www.unicef.org/publications/index_102949.html
•	 "4 Million Neonatal Deaths: When? Where? Why?" 
Lawn, J.E., Cousens, S., Zupan, J. The Lancet. Neonatal Survival 
Series. p. 9-18. 2005: www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/
PIIS0140-6736(05)71048-5/fulltext
RESEARCH, KNOWLEDGE, EVALUATION
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
22
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
23
REAL LIVES, REAL CHANGE
Two years ago, Mafia Bibi, a mother of three, lost her baby when 
he was only five days old. This was the second time that she lost a 
newborn within the first few days of birth.
Losing her children one after another for unknown reasons was so 
heartbreaking to Mafia Bibi that she wanted to make sure she didn’t 
conceive again anytime soon. She turned to her friend Razia, a 
community health worker — or Lady Health Worker as she is called in 
Pakistan — for advice on birth spacing.
“I have known Razia for several years now, but never really sought her 
help. Every time I had to deliver, I would travel to my parents’ home, 
in another village,” she says. “This time when I asked her for advice, 
she was very kind and guided me patiently. Two years passed by until 
I was pregnant again.”
On Razia’s recommendation, Mafia Bibi delivered her next child at a 
health facility in Bahawalnagar district, in the Punjab province, under 
the supervision of a doctor. Her previous children were all delivered 
at home without skilled birth attendants. Razia also counselled her on 
how to make sure her baby was as healthy as possible and she is now 
exclusively breastfeeding her newborn, Mohammad Ramzan, who is 
one month old.
Pakistan has one of the highest newborn mortality rates in the world. 
This is due in part to a shortage of skilled birth attendants, as well as 
low rates of breastfeeding, immunization and antenatal care. Many 
residents in small villages live in poverty, without access to education 
or knowledge of good health and hygiene practices. Based on age-old 
traditions, most women rely on advice from the elderly for childbirth 
practices, which can pose a threat to the mother’s and child’s health.
To improve the survival and health care of newborns, UNICEF and 
partners trained all of Bahawalnagar’s community health workers 
and their supervisors on how to improve newborn care at home. The 
health workers were given counselling cards with illustrations to help 
them guide the mothers in their communities. Through this project, 
UNICEF also procured thermometers, scales, portable projectors to 
show educational videos and acute respiratory infection timers that 
help the early diagnosis of pneumonia.
With new resources and enhanced capacity, community health 
workers are now contributing towards higher rates of births with 
skilled attendants, immunization, healthcare advice and quality care for 
newborns at home, and exclusive breastfeeding. All this is contributing 
to reduced rates of infant and child mortality.
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
24
Endnotes
1 National Institute of Population Studies. 2018. Pakistan Demographic and Health 
Survey 2017-18. Islamabad. https://dhsprogram.com/pubs/pdf/PR109/PR109.pdf.
2  National Assembly of Pakistan. Resolution passed on December 21th, 2018. www.
na.gov.pk/en/resolution_detail.php?id=354.
3  The 5 years immediately preceding the 1990-91 Pakistan Demographic and Health 
Survey - PDHS. National Institute of Population Studies. 1991. Pakistan Demographic 
and Health Survey 1990-91. Islamabad. https://dhsprogram.com/pubs/pdf/PR109/
PR109.pdf.
4 National Institute of Population Studies. 2007, 2013. Pakistan Demographic and 
Health Survey (PDHS) 2006-07; 2012-13. Government of Pakistan. Islamabad.
5  Because most child deaths occur at home, before reaching health facilities, pre­
venting fatalities by improving child health through the community is at the core of the 
approach called Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI). This strategy has 
three main areas of focus: improving health worker skills, improving health systems 
and improving family and community practices (Community Integrated Management 
of Childhood Illness, C-IMCI).
6  Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 2017-18, op.cit.
7 Ibid.
The maps in this publication are stylized and not to scale. They do not reflect a position 
by UNICEF on the legal status of any country or territory or the delimitation of any 
frontiers. The dotted line between Jammu and Kashmir represents approximately 
the Line of Control agreed upon by India and Pakistan. The final status of Jammu and 
Kashmir has not yet been agreed upon by the Parties.
UNICEF PROGRAMME IN PAKISTAN 2018-2022: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES
26
UNICEF Pakistan
unicef.org/pakistan
facebook.com/unicefpakistan 
twitter.com/UNICEF_Pakistan
instagram.com/unicefpk
