 
October 2025 
Benazir Nashonuma Programme:  
Delivering Breakthrough Results in Preventing 
Malnutrition Across Pakistan   
Operating under the Benazir Income Support 
Programme (BISP) – the country's largest 
social protection programme – the Benazir 
Nashonuma Programme has become a 
cornerstone in the fight against malnutrition 
in Pakistan. Nashonuma is delivering 
measurable impact on child survival and 
stunting reduction – as demonstrated by its 
mid-term evaluation. 
In Pakistan, stunting affects 40 percent of 
children under 5. Stunting (or chronic malnutrition) 
is defined as low height-for-age. It occurs over a 
period of time due to persistent undernutrition. 
Stunting means a child is too short for their age, 
signalling prolonged inadequate nutrition, which 
affects not only growth in length, but also short- 
and long-term health and development. Stunting 
cannot be treated, so it must be prevented. 
The cost of inaction is far greater than the cost 
of action. In addition to the loss of lives, 
malnutrition is hampering the country’s efforts to 
advance the 2030 Agenda and its Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs), causing an annual 
economic loss of US$ 17 billion, equivalent to 6.4 
percent of the country’s Gross National Income 
(GNI).  
BREAKING THE CYCLE OF MALNUTRITION 
Launched in 2020, the Benazir Nashonuma 
Programme targets pregnant and breastfeeding 
women and children under 2, focusing on the 
pivotal first 1,000 days of a child's life. Through its 
integration with BISP, Nashonuma can reach the 
most vulnerable mothers and children.  
The Nashonuma programme is delivered through 
542 facilitation centers and has reached 3.7 million 
women and children so far, including 38,000 
children suffering from severe acute malnutrition 
with medical complications (SAM-C). 
 Map: Nashonuma 542 Facilitation Centers 
Nashonuma provides a comprehensive package 
of nutrition-sensitive interventions:   
1. Antenatal and postnatal care services, child 
growth monitoring and immunization.  
2. Awareness sessions on maternal, infant and 
young child nutrition and hygiene practices.  
3. Conditional cash stipends provided by BISP 
to beneficiaries. 
4. Provision of specialized nutritious food (SNF) 
for mothers and children. They consist of 50-
75 grams of nutrient-packed paste to 
complement the diet by filling nutrient gaps. 
5. Screening and Management of Moderate 
and Severe Acute Malnutrition for children 
and mothers, including lifesaving treatment. 
A GOVERNMENTAL INVESTMENT, 
SUPPORTED BY UN AGENCIES 
The Nashonuma Programme is managed by the 
Government of Pakistan under the Benazir Income 
Support Programme (BISP). The World Food 
Programme (WFP), in close partnerships with Health 
Departments, supports the management of the 542 
Facilitation Centers and the procurement and 
distributions of specialized nutritious food (Maamta 
and Wawamum) to prevent stunting. The centres 
also screen for, and manage, acutely malnourished 
children and women. Severe cases with medical 
complications, and infants under 6 months, are 
referred to one of the 169 nutrition stabilization 
centres supported by the World Health Organization 
(WHO). UNICEF, the United Nations agency for 
children, provides Ready-to-Use Therapeutic Food 
(RUTF) for the treatment of severe acute 
malnutrition, and manage Social Behaviour Change 
Communication. 
The UN agencies objective is to support the federal 
and provincial governments in the 
operationalisation, assurances and evidence 
generation, while contributing to reinforce the 
sustainability of the investment. 
DELIVERING MEASURABLE IMPACT 
The Institute for Global Health & Development at 
Aga Khan University (AKU) is conducting an 
Independent Impact Evaluation of the Nashonuma 
Programme, funded by Gates Foundation. In 
September 2025, AKU shared the Midterm results of 
the evaluation – which showed that Nashonuma is 
delivering some of the strongest results ever 
documented globally for a nutrition programme, 
with measurable impact on stunting reduction and 
child survival.  
The study found a 6.4 percentage points lower 
prevalence of stunting among children under 2 
who participated in Nashonuma. Similarly, in 
intervention districts, the prevalence of low birth 
weight declined by 5.6 percentage points compared 
to non-intervention districts. Equally remarkable, the 
prevalence of stunting at 6 months of age was 20 
percent lower among beneficiaries, and the number 
of small vulnerable newborn births was more than 7 
percentage points lower, an unprecedented early 
gain, also very important for child survival. The study 
also documented improvements in early initiation of 
breastfeeding, immunization coverage and antenatal 
care visits. 
      20% 
 
Stunting prevalence  
among children at 6 months 
of age is 20 percent lower 
among Nashonuma 
beneficiaries  
 
      6.4% 
 
Stunting among children 
under 2 was 6.4 percentage 
points lower among 
beneficiaries compared to 
non-beneficiaries 
 
        
The prevalence of  
low birth weight declined by 
5.6 percentage points 
compared to non-
intervention districts 
Aga Khan University (AKU) Midterm results of Nashonuma Programme’s evaluation 
5.6% 
