IMPLEMENTATION OF MENTAL HEALTH POLICY IN 
PAKISTAN: A DREAM IN SEARCH OF REALITY?
83
EDITORIAL
Pakistan, half a century after independence, became a member of the group of 60% countries of the 
1
world which have a mental health policy, in 1997 . The policy covers areas of advocacy, promotion, 
2
prevention; treatment and rehabilitation through inter-sectoral collaboration . In the same year, a substance 
2, 3
abuse policy was also formulated which included interventions for both reduction of supply and demand  . 
Subsequently, a two-phased national mental health plan was developed with an aim to work towards 
adoption of biopsychosocial model, integration of mental health at all levels of health care, public-private 
2,
3
partnership and the promotion of public health approach to health care  . These were preceded by a 
national mental health programme, part of the general health policy of the country, which was formulated 
4
in 1986 and got fully implemented in 2001  after the replacement of Lunacy Act 1912 with a new Mental 
3, 5
Health Ordinance 2001, in February 2001
.
So does just making a mental health policy solve the mental health problems of a country? 
Certainly not, as without implementation, a policy is merely a piece of paper. Unfortunately this seems to 
be the case in Pakistan. However, the problem is not solely implementation. It started very early while 
chalking out the policy because the policy was developed without fully following the first pre requisite 
step i.e., gathering information about population needs which required formal research and rapid appraisal. 
Due to the non availability of basic research like national mental health morbidity data, there was very 
little evidence on which to base the policy. Further down the road, numerous missing links leading to a 
non-functional mental health policy can be figured like non-existence of any evaluative study of previous 
plans and programmes and lack of linking system (Information Management System).
Also lacking was an effort to map out all the stakeholders and take them on board for a consensual 
decision making and its implementation. Thus it became impossible to draw a holistic picture in any such 
issue and so the vision, values, principles and objectives of the mental health policy became mere words 
and identification of major areas of action, and categorizing major roles and responsibilities became 
6
practically impossible .
A few other obstacles can be pointed out like lack of human resources and political will to 
improve mental health; lack of evidence about the needs of the population; allocation of a very small 
mental health budget; and a non existing national health system which overall creates a disbelief in the 
7
genuineness of any mental health policy and thus may lead to failure .
So what to do? We must not to start reinventing the wheel. We will need to focus on guiding 
principles of policy making described by World Health Organization and restructure our policy. But this 
will still need an evidence base to start. This can be addressed through a priority role by Pakistan Medical 
and Research Council by granting funds and/or incentives in the field of research, especially mental health 
research. This is urgently needed in view of fact that during a period of 10 years (1993-2004) only 108 
Pakistani publications in all have appeared in Indexed journals (77.8% Medline, 22.2% psychInfo) with 
8
only one Randomized Control Trial . The College of Physicians and Surgeons Pakistan, the postgraduate 
degree awarding institute, should also encourage students through their respective supervisors, to be 
involved in prevalence studies. These may serve as pilot projects, with a comparatively smaller sample 
size, to gather evidence for useful strategy implementation in the whole country. Existing plans and 
strategies need to be reviewed for continuation of their positive aspects and discontinuation of their 
1
negative points .
JPMI
Muhammad Irfan
Department of Psychiatry
Lady Reading Hospital Peshawar - Pakistan
Stakeholders such as consumer and family groups; general health and mental health workers; 
health care providers; government agencies; academic institutions; professional institutions; traditional 
9
health workers; and religious organizations  should be involved. The capacity in terms of human resources 
should be developed by carefully identifying areas of action. The liaison with other countries and 
international experts for formulating cost effective interventions should be supported. These actions will 
need political will. A positive political attitude should be created by highlighting the importance of mental 
health on all concerned forums especially using media. This will lead to an environment which is based on 
understanding and trust, helpful in the formulation and implementation of mental health policy. It is 
needless to say that all the main sectors performing their specific roles and responsibilities can make any 
1
policy a success .
The final goal, thus, is the development of a mental health policy that can deliver comprehensive 
mental health care by integrating it with primary care but this will need competence, perseverance and 
motivational enthusiasm as it may take one to two years to develop and five to ten years, may be more, to 
1
implement a policy . The path is clear, the goal obvious but the destination is still out of sight. Let us 
move forward!!!
1.
World Health Organization: Mental health policy, plans and programmes. [Online] 2005 [Cited on 
2010, May 10]. Available from URL: http://www.who.int/mental_health/ policy/en/policy 
_plans_revision.pdf
2.
Report of the Subcommittee on Mental Health and Substance Abuse. Ninth Five- year Plan 
(1998–2003). Prospective plan 2003–2013. Islamabad, Planning Commission, Government of Pakistan; 
1998.
3.
World Health Organization: Mental Health Atlas.  [Online] 2005 [Cited on 2010, June 10]. Available 
from URL: http://www.who.int/mental_health/evidence/atlas/ profiles_countries_n_r1.pdf
4.
Planning Commission: A Report of the sub-working group on mental health care in Pakistan, 1987 – 
National Programme of Mental Health for Pakistan. Islamabad, Pakistan: Planning Commission, 
Government of Pakistan; 1987.
5.
WHO. Results of a global advocacy campaign. [Online] 2001 [Cited on 2010, June 12]. Available from 
URL:http://www.who.int/mental_health/media/en/257.pdf.
6.
Gadit A. Psychiatry in Pakistan: 1947-2006: A new balance sheet. J Pak Med Assoc 2007;57:453-63.
7.
Gadit AAM. Is there a visible mental health policy in Pakistan? J Pak Med Assoc 2007;57:212-3.
8.
Naqvi H. JPPS and research in Pakistan. J Pak Psych Soc 2006;3:52-3.
9.
World Health Organization: Mental health policy, plans and programs (updated version).  [Online] 2005 
[Cited on 2010, June 20]. Available from URL: http://www.who.int/mental_health/policy/services/-
Example%20Stakeholders%20for%20MH%20policy%20&%20plan%20Infosheet.pdf.
REFERENCES
JPMI
84
EDITORIAL 
Address for Correspondence:
Dr. Muhammad Irfan
Department of Psychiatry
Lady Reading Hospital Peshawar - Pakistan
E-mail: mirfan78@yahoo.com
IMPLEMENTATION OF MENTAL HEALTH POLICY IN PAKISTAN: A DREAM IN SEARCH OF REALITY?
