 
 
 
 
 
1
www.mhpss.pk   
 
PPMI Complex 
mhspcu@gmail.com  
 
H8/1 Islamabad 
  
 
Report on National  
Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) Coordination Meeting 
24th May 2025, Islamabad 
  
 
 
 
 
 
The first national MHPSS coordination meeting was held on 6th May 2025 at the Health Section, PPMI 
Complex, Ministry of Planning, Development & Special Initiatives (MoPD&SI). This was attended by key 
stakeholders both in-person and online (list attached). 
 
Objectives of the meeting 
1. To highlight the role of MHPSS within the National Development Portfolio 
2. To introduce the Mental Health Strategic Planning & Coordination Unit (MHSPCU) 
3. To introduce the Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) Model 
4. To coordinate with all stakeholders and conduct an initial review of their initiatives 
5. To deliberate on the next steps 
 
Proceedings of the meeting 
1. Opening remarks: Dr Saima Bashir, Member SSD, Planning Commission 
2. The MHPSS Model: Dr Asma Humayun, National Technical Advisor, MHSPCU 
3. National MHPSS Coordination & Implementation Framework: Dr. Muhammad Asif, Chief Health 
4. SSARC Project overview: Ms Heidi Herrmann, Commission Manager, SSARC 
5. MHPSS in KP: Dr Mussawir Manzoor, Department of Health, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) 
 
The following is a summary of the initiatives and comments shared by the participants related to the 
scope of their work related to Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS). 
 
1. Ministry of National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination (MoNHSR&C) 
The MoNHSR&C reaffirmed their alignment with MoPD&SI on MHPSS priorities, particularly within 
the broader framework of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and mental health. They have 
constituted a Sub-committee for Mental Health (Promotion, Prevention & Treatment) under the 
Technical Working Group (TWG) in NCDs & Mental Health.  
 
2. Department of Health, Government of Balochistan 
The Balochistan Health Department highlighted the need for MHPSS services in light of ongoing 
security concerns. They emphasized the importance of multi-sectoral coordination for effective 
implementation. The government of Balochistan enacted a Mental Health Act in 2019, but national 
intersectoral support is needed for its implementation because of gaps in expert resources. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
www.mhpss.pk   
 
PPMI Complex 
mhspcu@gmail.com  
 
H8/1 Islamabad 
 
3. Department of Health, Government of AJK 
The department acknowledged the growing mental health needs in AJK, and their constraints of 
limited budget and specialist resources. The department highlighted the long-term societal and 
individual impacts of mental health issues and the need of the hour to collaborate and work on this. 
The department expressed interest in addressing training gaps for psychologists and primary care 
providers, as well as tackling stigma among healthcare professionals. They showed readiness to 
implement the MHPSS model in AJK and appreciated the importance of involving all government 
stakeholders to ensure sustainability.  
 
4. Department of Health, Government of Gilgit Baltistan 
The Health Department, GB highlighted that despite a huge burden of mental disorders, lack of 
resources has limited the implementation of various MHPSS initiatives. They acknowledged that the 
MHPSS model appears highly relevant for GB and stressed the need for support from the federal 
government and development partners. Some efforts include a WHO-supported mhGAP training 
activity, and services by organizations like Rupani Foundation and Aga Khan Services, some 
awareness sessions were organized by the population welfare department etc. They expressed their 
concerns about governmental restrictions on hiring clinical psychologists, and expressed interest in 
multisectoral collaboration & technical support from MoPD&SI to strengthen MHPSS services in GB. 
 
5. Health Department, Sindh  
No comments provided  
6. Health Department, Punjab 
No comments provided  
7. Chief Commissionerate for Afghan Refugees (CCAR) 
CCAR acknowledged the need to provide mental health support to all refugees and highlighted its 
role in policy and project implementation for Afghan refugees. CCAR is collaborating with GIZ to  
implement the MHPSS model in KP, but they expressed concern over the short-term nature of 
funded projects, which lack sustainability and face multiple implementation challenges —including 
health service delivery, institutional capacity, training and skills, and data gaps. 
They appreciated leadership role and coordination efforts by the MoPD&SI, suggested the 
importance of tailoring the model to regional needs during scalability, and recommended 
integrating it with specific digital mental health services for Afghan refugees. 
 
8. Balochistan Institute of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences (BIPBS), Quetta 
In 2020-21, Baluchistan Institute of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences collaborated with UNICEF 
and trained over 1,200 dedicated health professionals, including doctors, paramedics, nurses, Lady  
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
www.mhpss.pk   
 
PPMI Complex 
mhspcu@gmail.com  
 
H8/1 Islamabad 
Health Workers (LHWs), and Community Health Workers (CHWs)—across the District of Jaffarabad, 
Baluchistan, as part of a Mental Health and Psychosocial Support (MHPSS) initiative.  
 
9. International Medical Corps (IMC) 
IMC shared that their PRM and UNHCR training projects have concluded, while current 
collaborations with UNHCR and GIZ continue in KP. IMC is delivering comprehensive case 
management, mhGAP-based capacity building, and community-based programs for Afghan 
refugees, including youth empowerment and livelihoods initiatives. 
They shared that they have contextualized scalable interventions such as PM+ and SH+ in Pashto, 
and conducted foundational helping skills trainings under the EQUIP initiative with IOM.  
IMC also highlighted the uncertainty of funding to continue these projects. They are collaborating 
with GIZ to implement the MHPSS model in Kohat and Haripur.  
 
10. Islamic Relief  
Islamic Relief Pakistan (IRP) highlighted their integrated humanitarian and development work with 
vulnerable populations across all provinces and AJK, including the establishment of 500 community 
structures and engagement with an equal number of community providers. They emphasized the 
importance of linking MHPSS model with other services to enhance awareness and accessibility.  
IRP, in collaboration with UNFPA, is strengthening GBV-related sites and helplines, and sees strong 
potential for collaboration with other stakeholders and the Ministry. They currently have 10 clinical 
psychologists working across Pakistan to include MHPSS components into all upcoming projects. 
 
11. International Organization for Migration (IOM) 
IOM shared that over the past 2–3 years, they have provided MHPSS-integrated primary healthcare 
services in Balochistan, Karachi, and KP through mobile and fixed-site facilities. Under the ongoing 
refugee response plan, IOM will start to provide primary healthcare services in Karachi, Peshawar, 
and Balochistan, with integrated MHPSS services including individual counselling sessions to the 
patients who are accessing healthcare services at PHC units or maternal and childcare centres. IOM 
is also implementing a UK-funded project for Afghans in Islamabad, who are registered to resettle in 
the UK, which includes screening, counseling, and vocational support services. 
 
12. United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF) 
UNICEF shared that mental health was formally integrated into their health portfolio two years ago, 
with the establishment of a TWG under MoNHSRC in 2022, which is renotified in 2025. They have 
developed a Theory of Change for the WHO’s Helping Adolescents Thrive (HAT) program for 
adolescents, translated it into Urdu, and piloted it in Rawalpindi with the support of clinical  
psychologists from Shifa Tameer-e-Milat University (STMU); the program is currently pending 
MoNHSRC’s endorsement. Moving on, UNICEF is implementing the HAT program in Rawalpindi  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
www.mhpss.pk   
 
PPMI Complex 
mhspcu@gmail.com  
 
H8/1 Islamabad 
 
division through STMU’s internal funding and plan to conduct research based on implementation 
data. They are planning their expansion from 2025–2027 in Muzafargarh, South Punjab, in 
collaboration with local partners. 
 
13. Integrated Flood Resilience and Adaptation Project (IFRAP), FPMU 
IFRAP expressed that their primary purpose is to provide housing and infrastructure, their 
participation aimed to better understand MHPSS needs. IFRAP acknowledged the importance of 
integrating MHPSS into broader development agendas. IFRAP suggested to incorporate AI and use of 
mobile applications in MHPSS services as a long-term goal and emphasized the need for baseline 
data to support such integration.  
 
14. National Stop Transmission of Polio (NSTOP) Program 
The NSTOP representative commented on the scalability of the MHPSS model, particularly its 
potential to extend mental health services to the underserved population across the country.  
With a workforce of approximately 200,000 health personnel including LHWs and community 
workers, NSTOP highlighted the opportunity to rapidly scale the model using their existing 
infrastructure. They recommended tailoring interventions to specific needs, such as disasters and 
disease outbreaks, and emphasized the importance of integrating mental health services into 
primary healthcare. They expressed interest in collaboration with MoPD&SI and their partners for its 
implementation in their programme across the country. 
 
15. United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) 
The UNHCR staff outlined its ongoing MHPSS collaborations with IMC, Danish, and Aspire Pakistan 
across multiple provinces, focused on community-based services and capacity building for refugees, 
asylum seekers, and cardholders. They highlighted challenges due to recent funding cuts, 
particularly affecting training and counselling. UNHCR emphasized the holistic nature of its MHPSS 
approach and acknowledged coordination gaps, which the MHSPCU is expected to address. 
Reflecting on lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic, they stressed the need for continued 
collaboration and are gradually working toward a more organized and unified MHPSS response. 
 
16. Handicap International 
Handicap International reported three active MHPSS projects in eight districts of KP. Their work 
includes capacity-building for both government and non-government officials through GIZ, facility-
based mental health services since 2019, and integration of MHPSS into PHC via BHUs. They also 
recently launched a project targeting out-of-school children with a focus on providing recreational 
mental health services and safe spaces. 
 
17. WHO, Pakistan 
No comments provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
5
www.mhpss.pk   
 
PPMI Complex 
mhspcu@gmail.com  
 
H8/1 Islamabad 
 
Discussion and way forward 
 
 MHPSS model is an evidence-driven, indigenous and contextualized model, which is developed 
following international guidelines. It is designed not only for MHPSS services but also to support the 
well-being of service providers. The MHPSS model can be implemented using the existing resources 
of the partner organizations deployed in different areas.  
 
 The digital component of the MHPSS model is expected to become operational within one month, 
positioning the program to begin rollout by June. Implementation plans have already been 
developed for ICT and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. These will serve as starting points for the phased roll-
out of the MHPSS model. 
 
 The MHSPCU at MoPD&SI aims to play a pivotal role in bringing all stakeholders together through 
structured individual and collective consultations. This integrated approach will help consolidate 
existing efforts, reduce redundancy, and identify policy gaps that need to be addressed in alignment 
with national priorities. Many existing collaborations operate in isolation or under limited scopes, 
raising concerns about long-term sustainability. This coordination is essential to address 
fragmentation, avoid duplication, and ensure effective advocacy, resource mobilization, and 
collective impact. 
 
 MoPD&SI will establish short-term targets for the next 2–3 months, focusing on system readiness 
and practical implementation steps. 
 
 Due to limited funding and resources in Pakistan, it is not feasible to fully implement the 
international guidelines or intervention, which are piloted by UN agencies and iNGOs. Therefore, a 
possible way forward is to develop consensus among all stakeholders on prioritizing areas and 
explore the possibility of aligning relevant components of the global standard interventions into the 
MHPSS service model to strengthen/sustain services.  
 
 MoPD&SI aims to create a unified, integrated system for mental health service delivery, rather than 
fostering parallel structures. While the primary focus remains on host communities, vulnerable  
populations, including refugees, will also be covered. The overarching goal is to ensure equitable 
access to mental health services as a basic human right. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Dr Muhammad Asif 
Chief Health, Health Section 
Ministry of Planning, Development & Special Initiatives 
 
Dr Asma Humayun 
MBBS, FRCPsych, MMedSci (UK) 
National Technical Advisor 
Mental Health Strategic Planning & Coordination Unit 
Ministry of Planning, Development and Special Initiatives 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6
www.mhpss.pk   
 
PPMI Complex 
mhspcu@gmail.com  
 
H8/1 Islamabad 
 
Annex I: Additional references  
1. The mhGAP-HIG-PK 
2. Handout of the meeting (attached) 
3. An op-ed in Dawn on 21st May stating KP pilot plans: Improving mental healthcare 
 
Annex II: List of Participants 
 
S. 
No. 
Organization 
Name/focal person, designation  
Online/Inperson 
1 
 MoPD&SI 
Dr. Saima Bashir, Member Planning Commission 
Online 
2 
MoPD&SI, Health 
section 
Dr. M Asif, Chief Health 
In-person 
3 
Dr. Javaria Nasim, Assistant Chief Health  
In-person 
4 
MHSPCU, 
MoPD&SI 
Dr. Asma Humayun, National Technical Advisor 
In-person 
5 
Dr. Arooj Najmussaqib, Mental Health Consultant 
In-person 
6 
Noor ul Ain Muneeb, Senior MHPSS Officer 
In-person 
7 
Dr. Israr ul Haq, Consultant Psychiatrist 
In-person 
9 
MoNHSRC 
 
Dr. Naeem Akhtar, DDPII 
In-person 
10 
Qurat ul Ain, DYD (internee) 
In-person 
11 
Punjab Health 
Dr. Imtiaz Ahmad Rana, Representative DG Health 
Office, Punjab  
Online 
12 
KP Health  
Dr. Mussawir Manzoor, Deputy Director Public Health 
Online 
13 
KP P & D 
Zainab Khatoon, Assistant Chief 
In-person 
14 
AJK Health 
Dr. Abdul Sattar, Director Health Services 
Online 
15 
GB Health 
Dr. Mubashir Hassan, Director Health Services Planning, 
GB 
Online 
16 
Dr. Malika Saba, Deputy Director Health, GB and Focal 
Person for Mental Health 
Online 
17 
Balochistan 
Health 
Shaukat Ali Baloch, Focal Person for Mental Health, 
Balochistan  
Online 
18 
Sindh Health, 
P&D  
Mr Toufique Ahmad Shaikh, Chief Health, P&D Dept, 
Sindh   
Online 
19 
NDMA 
Muhammad Arif, Manager Gender and Child Cell 
In-person 
20 
NSTOP 
Islamabad 
Dr. Mumtaz Ali Laghari, Deputy Coordinator NSTOP 
Programme  
In-person 
21 
Mominah Aijaz, Program officer 
In-person 
22 
Chief 
Commissionerate 
for Afghan 
Refugees (CCAR)  
Dr. Inayat Khan, Director Protection 
In-person 
 
 
 
 
 
7
www.mhpss.pk   
 
PPMI Complex 
mhspcu@gmail.com  
 
H8/1 Islamabad 
23 
CAR KP 
Samina Parveen, Master Trainer, CDU CAR KP  
In-person 
24 
IFRAP, FPMU 
Saniya Ashraf, M&E officer 
In-person 
25 
Institute of 
Psychiatry 
Balochistan 
Aminullah kakar, Senior clinical psychologist BIPBS 
Online 
26 
SSARC, GIZ  
Heidi Hermann, Commission Manager, SSARC 
In-person 
27 
Shandana Saad, Technical Advisor 
Online 
28 
Sumera Malik, Technical Advisor  
In-person 
29 
International 
Medical Corps 
Bakhtiar Ahmad, Country Director  
In-person 
30 
Rafi Ullah Khalil 
In-person 
31 
Syed Khurram Khursheed 
In-person 
32 
Islamic Relief 
Syed Safi Pirzada, Senior Manager program development In-person 
33 
Muhammad Asif Iqbal, Program development specialist 
In-person 
34 
Ghulam Raza Narejo, Deputy country director  
In-person 
35 
UNICEF 
Dr. Humaira Irshad, Health Officer 
In-person 
36 
IOM 
Dr. Gul Ghuttai Khalid, National Program officer, Health 
In-person 
37 
Maryam Naseer, Junior Program Assistant, Health 
In-person 
38 
UNHCR 
Wajiha Afzal, Assistant Community-Based Protection 
Officer 
In-person 
39 
UNFPA 
Saida Inayat, Programme Analyst GBVie 
In-person 
40 
Handicap 
International  
Abdul Dayyan, Project Director   
Online 
41 
Sumaira Bibi, Country Meal manager  
In-person 
42 
WHO, Pakistan 
Could not attend because of information oversight but 
was invited to contribute to this report 
 
 
 
