Midterm Evaluation Report 
i
 
 
 
 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation of  
Project for Accelerating Policy Change, 
Translation and Implementation for Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea Commodities  
 
2016-2020 
 
 Pakistan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
C o n t e c h  I n t e r n a t i o n a l   
D e c e m b e r  2 0 1 9  
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
ii
 
Acknowledgements 
Contech International highly values the support extended by M/o NHSR&C, Provincial 
Health Departments, health programmes, members of Child Survival Groups, Sindh Child 
Survival Programme, clinicians, Pakistan Pediatric Association, WHO and other development 
partners in enhancing the quality and scientific rigor of the evaluation as well as the report.  We 
are also grateful to the pharmaceutical manufacturers who provided us with their invaluable 
insights about the industry and to the all those who were involved in and facilitated the data 
collection: Federal, Provincial and District Health Managers; data collection teams including 
field teams and the support staff. We would also like to extend our gratitude to facility and 
pharmacy in-charges, community health workers, GPs and parents/caregivers whose 
participation and freedom of expression allowed us to gather relevant and reliable information 
for this report. Last but not the least, we would like to express our gratitude to UNICEF’s 
national and provincial project implementation teams and UNICEF Evaluation & Research Unit 
for their unstinted support and invaluable feedback during the process of this Midterm 
Evaluation. We hope that the evaluation findings and the frameworks hence developed will 
make a valuable contribution in improving child survival in Pakistan. 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
iii 
 
 
Title 
MIDTERM EVALUATION OF PROJECT FOR 
ACCELERATING POLICY CHANGE, 
TRANSLATION AND IMPLEMENTATION 
FOR PNEUMONIA AND DIARRHEA 
COMMODITIES IN PAKISTAN 
Geographic Location of the 
Project 
Federal and Provincial (2 provinces, i.e. Punjab 
and Sindh) 
Timeline of Evaluation 
May 2019 – December 2019 
Date of the Report 
30th December 2019 
Country 
Pakistan 
Evaluators 
Muhammad Adeel Alvi (Team Leader), Mariam 
Zahid Malik, Rabia Suljuk, Farooq Umer, Abdul 
Hamid, Hira Hasan and Rubeena Zakar  
Name of the Organization 
Contech International, Lahore, Pakistan 
Name of the Organization 
Commissioning the Midterm 
Evaluation 
Evaluation and Research Unit of the United 
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in Pakistan  
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
iv 
List of Acronyms and Abbreviations 
 
Amox-DT 
Amoxicillin Dispersible Tablets 
ARI 
Acute Respiratory Infection 
BHUs 
Basic Health Units  
BMGF 
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 
CEO 
Chief Executive Officer 
CPSP 
College of Physicians and Surgeons Pakistan 
CSG 
Child Survival Group 
DCP 
Disease Control Priorities 
DFID 
Department for International Development  
DHIS 
District Health Information System 
DOC 
Driver of Change 
DT 
Dispersible Tablets 
EDO 
Executive District Officer 
EML 
Essential Medicine List 
EPI 
Expanded Programme On Immunization 
EPHS 
Essential Package of Health Services 
FGDs 
Focus Group Discussions 
FLCF 
First Level Care Facility 
GAPPD 
Global Action Plan for Pneumonia & Diarrhea 
GPs 
General Practitioners 
ICCM 
Integrated Community Case Management 
 
IMNCI 
Integrated Management of Neonatal and Childhood Illnesses 
IYCF 
Infant and Young Child Feeding  
JAF 
Joint Accountability Framework 
KII 
Key Informant Interviews 
LHW 
Lady Health Worker 
M&E 
Monitoring & Evaluation 
MoNHSR&C 
Ministry of National Health Services Regulation & Coordination 
MNCH 
Maternal Neonatal Child Health 
MSDP 
Minimum Service Delivery Package 
MSDS 
Minimum Service Delivery Standards 
NIH 
National Institution of Health 
OECD/DAC 
Criteria 
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)/ 
Development Assistance Committee (DAC) Criteria for Evaluation 
ORS 
Oral Rehydration Solution 
PATS 
Pakistan’s Approach to Total Sanitation 
PIEA 
Political Institutional Economy Analysis 
PMDC 
Pakistan Medical and Dental Council 
PMER 
Planning Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation 
PMRC 
Pakistan Health (Medical) Research Council 
RHCs 
Rural Heath Units 
RMNCAH 
Reproductive Maternal Neonatal Child & Adolescent Health 
SOPs 
Standard Operating Procedures 
TOC 
Theory of Change 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
v 
TWG 
Technical Working Group 
U5 
Under five years of age 
UNICEF 
United Nations Children’s Fund 
 
USAID 
United States Agency for International Development 
WHO 
World Health Organization 
Zinc-DT 
Zinc Dispersible tablets 
 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
vi 
Contents 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
II
 
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS 
IV
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
VIII
 
EVALUATION PURPOSE & OBJECTIVES 
VIII
 
METHODOLOGY 
VIII
 
MAIN FINDINGS 
VIII
 
CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
X
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
11
 
1.1 OBJECT OF EVALUATION – PNEUMONIA AND DIARRHEA PROJECT 
12
 
1.2 RATIONALE FOR COMMISSIONING MIDTERM EVALUATION 
15
 
2. LITERATURE REVIEW 
17
 
2.1 GLOBAL SCENARIO 
17
 
2.2 PNEUMONIA AND DIARRHEA PAKISTAN CONTEXT 
19
 
2.3 BMGF & PROGRAMME FOR CHILD SURVIVAL 
21
 
3. EVALUATION METHODOLOGY 
22
 
3.1 EVALUATION CRITERIA AND QUESTIONS 
23
 
3.2 EVALUATION TECHNIQUE – MIXED METHOD 
25
 
3.3 SECONDARY DATA 
29
 
3.4 EVALUATION TEAM 
30
 
3.5 PROCEDURAL STEPS AND QUALITY ASSURANCE MECHANISMS 
31
 
3.6 DATA MANAGEMENT 
35
 
3.7 LIMITATIONS OF THE EVALUATION 
36
 
4. EVALUATION FINDINGS 
37
 
4.1 STATUS OF PROJECT OUTCOMES 
37
 
4.2.1 RELEVANCE 
42
 
4.2.2 EFFECTIVENESS 
49
 
4.2.3 EFFICIENCY 
56
 
4.2.4 SUSTAINABILITY 
61
 
5. CONCLUSIONS 
65
 
5.1 PROPOSED THEORY OF CHANGE 
67
Midterm Evaluation Report 
vii 
 
6. RECOMMENDATIONS 
69
 
7. DISSEMINATION 
72
 
8. REFERENCES 
73
 
9. BIBLIOGRAPHY 
75
 
10. ANNEXES 
76
 
ANNEX 1: EVALUATION MATRIX 
76
 
ANNEX 2: EVALUATION TEAM COMPOSITION 
83
 
ANNEX 3: ETHICAL REVIEW BOARD CERTIFICATE 
84
 
ANNEX 4: CASE STUDIES 
85
 
ANNEX 5: GUIDES FOR INTERVIEWS AND FOCUS GROUP DISCUSSIONS 
89
 
ANNEX 6: RISK REGISTER 
121
 
ANNEX 7: DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED CHANGE PATHWAYS 
124
LIST OF TABLES 
TABLE 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND SELECTION OF DISTRICTS
 
 
26
TABLE 2: DISTRICT SELECTION IN SINDH – HDI AND GEOGRAPHICAL VARIATIONS
 
 
26
TABLE 3: QUALITATIVE SAMPLING MATRIX FOR KEY INFORMANT INTERVIEWS
 
 
28
TABLE 4: QUALITATIVE SAMPLING MATRIX FOR FOCUS GROUP DISCUSSIONS
 
 
29
TABLE 5: QUANTITATIVE SAMPLING MATRIX FOR HEALTH FACILITIES
 
 
29
 
TABLE 6: TRAININGS UNDER P&D PROJECT 
41
TABLE 7: RECOMMENDATIONS’ MATRIX
 
 
70
LIST OF FIGURES 
 
FIGURE 1: PROJECT THEORY OF CHANGE 
14
 
FIGURE 2: MIDTERM EVALUATION – CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK 
22
 
FIGURE 3: SELECTED DISTRICTS FOR MIDTERM EVALUATION 
25
 
FIGURE 4: ORGANOGRAM OF EVALUATION TEAM 
30
 
FIGURE 5: REVISION OF IMNCI GUIDELINES 
39
 
FIGURE 6: PERCENTAGE OF HEALTH FACILITIES HAVING UPDATED COMMODITIES 
58
FIGURE 7: PERCENTAGE OF PNEUMONIA AND DIARRHEA PRESCRIPTIONS HAVING UPDATED 
 
COMMODITIES PRESCRIBED 
59
 
FIGURE 8: UNDERLYING REASONS FOR NOT PRESCRIBING UPDATED COMMODITIES 
59
 
FIGURE 9: PROPOSED THEORY OF CHANGE 
68
 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
viii 
Executive Summary 
Evaluation Purpose & Objectives 
UNICEF Pakistan, through financial assistance of Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation 
(BMGF) is implementing the project for ‘Accelerating Policy Change, Translation and 
Implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Commodities in Pakistan (hereinafter called the 
Project or P&D Project). Policy transformation is a complex and painstaking process that 
requires clear-cut, precise and well-timed interplay of a multitude of factors. These factors, both 
intrinsic like political will and commitment, and extrinsic like broader policy environment should 
all work coherently to complete the causal chain of policy change, policy translation and then its 
implementation and ultimately, knowledge management of the impact. Keeping this in view, the 
Project started off in 2016 to bring policies to build barriers between the children – girls and boys 
under five years of age – and two major contributors to child mortality: Pneumonia and Diarrhea. 
The scope of work of the Project mainly comprised of federal level support to Ministry of 
National Health Services Regulation and Coordination in Islamabad (MoNHSRC), Provincial 
Health Departments, Offices of District Health Officers (DHOs), health facilities and outreach 
workers in targeted districts. This midterm evaluation (MTE) was commissioned to assess the 
extent to which the Project was successful in achieving its intended results, and whether the 
stakeholders were productively involved in the causal chain of policy change, translation, 
implementation and knowledge management. It further explored opportunities and lessons 
learned. Specifically, MTE addressed the following objectives:  
• 
To assess the extent to which the intended outcomes of the project are achieved by 
comparing it with results from the baseline studies / evaluability assessment of the project; 
• 
To document the processes involved in achievement of the outcomes and identify gaps that 
has affected the project to ensure achieving the results; 
• 
To review and assess proper utilization of supplies provided to beneficiaries at public 
facilities and identify the gaps in utilization;  
• 
To assess the potential for replicability and scalability; and 
• 
To provide guidance for improvement and course correction in all areas and programme 
strategies, and targets to ensure effective achievement of the results. 
Methodology 
A formative evaluation design with a mixed methods approach (quantitative and 
qualitative techniques) was adopted, and both primary and secondary data was collected with 
gender disaggregation done wherever possible. The evaluation team worked in close 
collaboration with all stakeholders during various stages of the MTE. Stakeholders included 
federal and provincial governments, along with health facilities, outreach workers, private sector 
care providers, donors and development partners and the ultimate beneficiaries. The end-users 
and other stakeholders were involved mainly as participants, i.e. interviewees and focus group 
participants. Gender mainstreaming was kept in consideration while devising the data collection 
processes and tools. Gender balance was incorporated in the approach of the evaluation along 
with exploring gender differentials and possible discriminatory practices against girl child. An 
evaluation framework was developed considering the evaluation objectives and evaluation 
questions as per OECD/DAC components of evaluation. 
Main Findings  
Findings of the evaluation are described under each component of the OECD/DAC Criteria 
for Evaluation. 
Relevance was assessed to determine the extent to which the project suited the priorities 
and policies of the target group, recipient and donor. Findings revealed that there is high 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
ix 
relevance of the project as Pneumonia and Diarrhea contribute extensively to childhood deaths 
in Pakistan. Empirical evidence supported the use of updated commodities as per the GAPPD 
recommendations and guidelines of WHO for management of childhood Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea. Further, it was affirmed that the project objectives are highly consistent with 
Pakistan’s national vision and priorities for child health.  
Effectiveness was assessed to determine the extent to which the project was able to attain 
its objectives. Resultantly, the project updated national and provincial policies and guidelines in 
line with GAPPD recommendations, however implementation of these policies at district and 
community level needs to be strengthened. Effective coordination mechanisms between federal 
and provincial levels were established in the form of National RMNCAH&N TWG and 
provincial child survival TWGs. Reporting tools on facility (DHIS tools) and community level 
data (LHW MIS tools) were updated with inclusion of new commodities and indicators in 
alignment with GAPPD recommendations and WHO guidelines. The project engaged 
community level health workers – Lady Health Workers, and provision of ARI timers has 
empowered LHWs and improved their ability to manage ARI and timely refer Pneumonia. 
Efficiency measured the outputs – qualitative and quantitative – in relation to the inputs 
and the project was able to achieve its planned milestones and outcomes within the stipulated 
timeline. There were numerous factors, mainly related to limited demand that hindered the 
availability of recommended commodities for management of childhood pneumonia and 
diarrhea in the open market. The project has added value by improving management practices of 
healthcare providers, mainly outreach workers and primary level facilities and majority of these 
facilities had adequate supply of P&D recommended commodities but prescription behavior of 
care providers needed improvement. It is pertinent to mention that project has made certain 
adjustments mid-way to increase effective implementation. 
The project has contributed in building ownership of provincial governments of its 
interventions, which is further evident through inclusion of recommended commodities in 
MSDP, EML and procurement lists, DHIS and MIS tools, IMNCI guidelines and their 
incorporation in Maternal and Newborn Health Package of Services under Disease Control 
Priorities, Edition 3 (DCP3) of Universal Health Coverage Benefit Package for Pakistan.  
Sustainability was assessed to measure whether the benefits of the project are likely to 
continue after donor funding is withdrawn. Sustainability and replicability of the project is to be 
ensured through institutionalization of key policies and guidelines within health system. Such 
challenges will be mitigated through enhanced government ownership and funding on P&D. 
Lessons learnt during the course of MTE revealed that for Policy Change, political will 
and commitment was essential for policy transformation and reforms agenda. Joint 
accountability framework assisted the project in steering the progress and tracking as 
establishing oversight and coordination platforms at all levels were critical in building 
government ownership and steering the project activities. For Policy Translation, efforts 
should be strongly supported through empirical evidence for development of advocacy material. 
A key factor was building the acceptability of the care providers while introducing new/revised 
commodities and without financial commitment; public procurement of updated commodities is 
not possible. At the level of Policy Implementation, evidence of improved management of 
childhood illnesses through updated commodities accelerated the policy implementation phase. 
However, despite the resources and capacities, the local pharmaceutical manufacturing industry 
lacked interest in local production due to minimal demand of updated commodities in open 
market. In Knowledge Management of outcomes of the project interventions, updated federal 
and provincial policies and guidelines reflect the recognition of improved management of 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea as a shared goal and sustainability of P&D project will depend on 
achievement of results as perceived by the stakeholders including government, partner agencies, 
health facility staff and patients. 
  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
x 
Conclusion and Recommendations 
In the causal pathway of policy transformation and reforms, the stage of policy 
implementation is the most critical. In order to make the P&D Project interventions 
institutionalized in the existing system, the strengthening of health sector at individual, 
organizational and systems level is of utmost importance. A systems strengthening approach is 
recommended while moving forward so that the interventions under P&D become well 
entrenched in existing system for sustainability beyond the project life.  
Enabling policy environment - Sustenance of federal-provincial-district linkages and 
coordination should be continued through existing platforms at federal level (RMNCAH 
Group), provincial level (CSG and TWG), and district level (District Health & Population 
Management Teams). The supply chain management (from DOH to health facilities and 
outreach) should be strengthened so as the government capacity to roll out LMIS and DHIS-02.  
Private sector engagement – Being a service provider of more than two-thirds of 
population, the project should establish wider and proactive public-private partnership models. 
This includes engagement with pharma industry and Drugs Regulatory Authority, institutions 
regulating medical, nursing and paramedical education, and professional associations.  
Advocacy and Communication - Concerted advocacy efforts with political leadership 
for sustained will and commitment is important in policy transformation and reforms. Side by 
side, continued networking and lobbying with pharmaceutical manufacturers for local 
production is very important. The project should engage relevant partners for leveraging 
resources and coordinated actions.  
Scaling up and replication – Despite the devolution of health sector, which in a way 
made it easy to implement policy transformations in individual provinces, the project is 
encouraged to scale up the interventions to cover entire Pakistan. Now, after having experience 
of implementation in two of the big provinces of Pakistan, the provincial level interventions will 
be built upon the lessons learnt for replication through cross-sharing of achievements, 
challenges and lessons learnt among uncovered regions and provinces of Pakistan. 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
11
1. Introduction 
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations in 2015 were 
established to promote healthy lives and well-being for all children. Third SDG is to end 
preventable deaths of newborns and under-5 children by 2030. Each day, together Diarrhea and 
Pneumonia kill more than 4,000 children under the age of five-year around the world (Bhutta et 
al., 2013). Contribution of these two diseases to under-five (U5) child deaths has remained 
stubbornly high. Together, Diarrhea and Pneumonia account for 29 (percent) of all deaths 
amongst U5 children and results in a loss of 2 million young lives each year (WHO and 
UNICEF, 2013). In 2015, both of these two diseases were responsible for one in four deaths that 
occurred in children under five years of age (Bhutta et al., 2013). However, the under-five 
mortality rate had been cut by more than half worldwide in the past quarter century (from 91 
deaths per 1,000 live births in 1990 to 43 deaths per 1,000 live births in 2015). Similar trends 
were observed for Pakistan, where under-5 mortality has significantly declined from 112 deaths 
per 1,000 live births in 1990-91 to 74 deaths in 2017-18. Likewise, infant mortality rate also 
decreased from 86 to 62 deaths per 1,000 live births over the period of 1990-2018 (PDHS, 
1991; PDHS 2018). Nonetheless, still many children do not survive to see their fifth birthday, 
especially in the poorest and deprived regions in the world. Pakistan is one of the fifteen 
developing countries in the world that constitute majority of the global burden of Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea, as 72 (percent) of the children who lose their lives to Pneumonia and Diarrhea 
before the age of five, are from these high-burden countries (Bhutta et al., 2013). Acute 
respiratory infections (ARIs), malaria, and dehydration caused by severe Diarrhea are major 
causes of childhood mortality in Pakistan. In total, Diarrhea, Pneumonia, and malaria 
collectively contribute to around half of all child deaths each year in Pakistan (Bhutta et al., 
2013). The Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhea 
(GAPPD) ranks Pakistan as third highest in South Asia (with the score of 46), due to constantly 
high number of under-five deaths mainly caused by Pneumonia and Diarrhea.  
Focusing further on the current scenario in Pakistan, the country has more than 27 million 
children under the age of 5 years. Among these, number of children with Diarrhea and ARI, 
including Pneumonia was estimated around 6.3 million and 4.4 million, respectively (Bhutta et 
al., 2013). Recent statistics also reveal that, approximately 74 children under the age of 5 years 
die in 1,000 live births every year in Pakistan (PDHS, 2018). Apart from the prevalence of these 
fatal childhood diseases, management of their illnesses is also a major challenge. It is critical 
that children suffering from Diarrhea and Pneumonia receive timely and appropriate treatment. 
Amoxicillin syrup remains the prescribed medicine for the treatment of Pneumonia at most 
health care facilities, while the prescribed treatment for Diarrhea is ORS and zinc syrup. A low 
proportion of children receive appropriate treatment. According to Pakistan Demographic and 
Health Survey (PDHS) 2017-2018, treatment from a health facility or provider was sought for 
85% of children with ARI symptoms, almost equally for female and male child (84.4% and 
84.6% respectively) and treatment was sought from a health facility or health provider for 71% 
of children with Diarrhea (70% girls and 72% boys). 37% of children with Diarrhea received a 
rehydration solution from an oral rehydration salt (ORS) packet Diarrhea (36.6 % girls and 
38.2% boys); 13% of children with Diarrhea were given zinc supplements (12.2% girls and 
12.7% boys), and 8% (7% girls and 8.8% boys) received both ORS and zinc supplements. 
Moreover, only 46% of the children suffering from acute respiratory infection received an 
appropriate antibiotic (PDHS, 2018). ORS requires accuracy in preparation and is therefore 
often not used correctly; meanwhile zinc syrup is not easily available at local pharmacies 
(UNICEF, 2018). Gender disaggregated data on child healthcare and survival is not quite 
readily available. However, to whatever extent data for U5 children is available, was 
incorporated in the literature of this report. 
Estimates of infant mortality in Pakistan are available since the 1960s. These data show 
that IMR declined from 140 deaths per 1,000 live births in the 1960s to 105 in the mid-1980s, 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
12 
and further to 85 deaths per 1,000 live births in the mid-1990s. However, the pace of infant 
mortality decline appears to have slowed down since then. As would be expected, the variations 
in infant and under-five mortality across provinces are wide. In 2017-18, the IMR ranged from a 
low of 53 in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to a high of 73 in Punjab. The inter-provincial variations in 
U5 mortality rate are even greater – from a low of 64 in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa to a high of 85 in 
Punjab (PDHS, 2018). 
A series of Multiple Indicators Cluster Survey (MICS) and Pakistan Demographic and 
Health Survey (PDHS) has revealed that the gap in mortality between rural and urban areas is 
consistent, with infant mortality in rural areas is 23 and 27 and points greater than in urban areas 
of Punjab and Sindh, respectively.  
1.1 Object of Evaluation – Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project 
With partnership of UNICEF and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the project 
“Accelerating Policy Change, Translation and Implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea 
Commodities in Pakistan”, was initiated in 2016 with total investment of USD 12,516,903. The 
project was designed to improve the diagnosis, treatment as well as prevention of Diarrhea and 
Pneumonia in Pakistan by 2020. Working in close collaboration with Government of Pakistan 
and relevant stakeholders, the overall purpose was to implement a programme based on an 
integrated global action plan for the prevention and control of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and 
contribute to the efforts to increase child survival in Pakistan, particularly by strengthening 
policy solutions for better diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in girls and boys 
under 5 year of age. 
Aim of programme is to bring together evaluative interventions, warrant a healthy 
environment, promote practices that help decrease illnesses, and ensure that every girl and boy 
has access to proven preventive and treatment measures through evidence based updated 
medical commodities for Pneumonia and Diarrhea. The programme aims to link the most 
disadvantaged children and women with an integrated package of high impact and good quality 
healthcare commodities, with a special focus on systems strengthening and ensuring a 
continuum of healthcare. The project has made significant progress to meet its objectives 
through support in development and updating of national/provincial policies and guidelines in 
line with the global recommendations for the management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among 
under five children in Pakistan. UNICEF provided technical support to update and revise child 
survival related policies and strategies aligned with Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea (GAPPD) and WHO updated recommendations, including updating Early Childhood 
Diseases (ECD) sensitive IMNCI guidelines, Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT and Lo-ORS were 
included in provincial Essential Medicine Lists (EML), procurement lists, and in the Minimum 
Service Delivery Package (MSDP) in Punjab.  
Promoting gender equality and child rights is fundamental to the fulfilment of UNICEF’s 
core mandate. Gender equality is not just an essential human right, but also a foundation for a 
peaceful, prosperous and sustainable world. Its principles apply to both development and 
humanitarian contexts. In the past, differential approach of curative health services was the main 
cause of greater survival of boys than girls (Booth and Verma 1992). Until recently, infant 
mortality was higher for females than for males, reflecting a trend common in the country. 
However, the recent Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey (PDSH, 2018), this trend has 
reversed; showing female infant and under five mortality to be considerably lower than male 
infant and under five mortality. Similarly, there was no difference in care seeking behavior in 
cases of ARI (84.1% for girls and 84.4 for boys) and Diarrhea (70.0% for girls and 71.5% for 
boys). Since this programme contributes to reducing childhood morbidity and mortality caused 
by Pneumonia and Diarrhea, it frames gender equality as one of the development objectives. 
Health protection and services for poor families are crucial, given their pre-existing poor 
health and nutrition status to ensure equity. In 2017-18, the IMR of the poorest families was 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
13 
almost 43 percent that of the richest families. Regarding U5MR, disparity is even wider with 
more than 78 percent increase in U5MR between poorest and the richest wealth index quintiles 
(PDHS, 2018). Considering a significant proportion of Pakistan’s population are poor, ensuring 
health protection and services for this group remains a daunting challenge. Presence of a flush 
toilet is strongly associated with reduced risk of infant death, with the infant mortality rate in 
households having a flush toilet being 22 percent lower than in households without such a toilet 
(Bennet, 1999). Another dimension is education of the mothers and like rest of the world; 
educated mothers tend to have lower rates of infant and under-five mortality than illiterate 
mothers. A pattern is further observed that each incremental year of schooling is associated with 
significant gains in infant survival. The data indicate that even a few years of mother’s 
schooling can help improve child survival and significantly lower the death rate of children in 
their early years of life. Social accessibility can be understood in terms of religious, tribal and 
cultural barriers. Social and cultural factors may contribute to delay in decision making for 
health seeking by a sick child. The utilization of appropriate healthcare services for children 
suffering from Pneumonia and Diarrhea is at large constrained by local customs, practices and 
prevailing norms. 
 This project attempts to increase child survival, equally for both the female and male 
child, thus adhering to the principles of gender equality and child rights. While the general 
project objective is to improve management of childhood Diarrhea and Pneumonia and increase 
child survival by the end of 2020, soon after initiation of project, UNICEF conducted an 
‘Evaluability Study’ and ‘Baseline Landscape Analysis’, aimed to provide insight on barriers 
and facilitators to policy translation and commodity access in the public and private sectors at 
national and provincial level (Sindh and Punjab). As mentioned in the TORs of MTE, there was 
no Theory of Change (TOC) developed at the inception of the project. A retrospective TOC 
(Figure 1) was developed on the basis of ‘Evaluability Study’ and ‘Landscape Analysis’.  
As per the given TOC, the Project is expected to achieve the following outcomes, 
pertaining to policy change, translation and implementation of this project: 
• 
Outcome 1: Policy Change  
Existing national/provincial policies and guidelines are updated in line with global 
recommendations (GAPPD/WHO) for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among 
under five children in Pakistan by the end of 2020. 
• 
Outcome 2: Policy Translation  
Translation of revised and updated Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment guidelines into 
gender-responsive relevant action plans by all provincial/areas health departments in Pakistan 
by the end of 2020. 
• 
Outcome 3: Policy Implementation 
Availability of essential commodities (amoxicillin DT, zinc DT, co-packaged ORS and zinc, 
oxygen, ARI timers, and pulse oximeters) for treatment of childhood Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea in Pakistan by the end of 2020. 
• 
Outcome 4: Knowledge Management 
Translation of lessons learnt from this investment to other settings/broader geographical 
areas within Pakistan. 
  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
14 
Figure 1: Project Theory of Change  
 
This project promotes gender equality and women empowerment at community level. 
The community outreach workers (LHS and LHWs) are females who work at the grass root 
level, to promote healthy behaviours and provide basic curative services for both female and 
male children, without any discrimination. Since the project involves provision of commodities 
including gadgets like ARI timers to LHWs, the project is equipping the females in the 
community and empowering them to perform better. The project also aims to improve 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment equally for both female and male child, without any 
discrimination. Now after the implementation of the project, to ascertain the direction and 
progress made in this project in achieving the ultimate goal, UNICEF is getting a ‘Midterm 
Evaluation’ conducted as a part of the planned monitoring and evaluation activities for this 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
15 
project. The table below demonstrates the involvement of stakeholders in this project at various 
tiers. These stakeholders were involved at all stages of the MTE.   
P&D Project Stakeholders 
 Roles and Responsibilities 
LEVEL 
STAKEHOLDERS 
ROLES 
Federal 
M/o National Health Services Regulations 
and Coordination, UNICEF  
Knowledge Management, Steering, 
Monitoring, Policy Changing And 
Policy Translation Roles 
Provincial 
DOHs, LHW Programme, IRMNCH 
Programme, UNICEF Project Staff 
Management And Implementation 
Roles 
District 
 
District Health Offices, Healthcare 
Providers, Lady Health Supervisors (LHSs) 
and Lady Health Workers (LHWs) 
Coordination And Implementation 
Roles 
Community 
Concerned Population i.e. service users  
(mothers/caregivers of U5 children) 
Recipients And Beneficiaries 
Development 
Partners 
BMGF 
Funding Support 
UN Agencies 
Technical Reviews And 
Implementation Support 
Aga Khan University 
Implementation Partner for 
Community Mobilization in Sindh 
1.2 Rationale for Commissioning Midterm Evaluation 
UNICEF commissioned midterm evaluation (MTE) as part of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities planned for this project to ascertain that the direction and progress made 
were in the right direction in meeting its ultimate goals. It assessed the extent to which this 
project was successful in achieving its intended results and aided the beneficiaries, and whether 
the stakeholders were productively involved in the policy change, policy translation, and policy 
implementation and knowledge management. This evaluation determined systematically and 
objectively, the progress towards specified project objectives and the extent to which they were 
achieved and contributed to increase child survival for both girls and boys in Pakistan. This 
evaluation particularly made recommendations in improving the pathways of diagnosis and 
treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in U5 children over the project period. Evaluation 
documented the overall progress and lessons learned from the project with recommendations 
that would be used in improving the project in accordance with the National Health Vision, and 
formulating a revised strategic plan for future planning. The evidences would also help in 
scaling up the project in other geographical areas in Pakistan and other settings.  
Government health institutions, more specifically the MoNHSR&C (Ministry of National 
Health Services, Regulation and Coordination) and the Provincial/Area Departments of Health 
(DoH), Lady Health Worker Programme (LHWP), Integrated Reproductive Maternal Newborn, 
Child Health (IRMNCH) Programme, along with United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), 
and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) are the primary intended users of this 
evaluation, and would benefit from the learning relevant to their work. The women, children, 
families, communities, health care providers, policy makers, opinion leaders and partners would 
be the secondary audience.  
Primary aim of this midterm evaluation is to document the progress made so far and the 
lessons learnt from the project that will be used in improving the implementation of project 
interventions. In addition, secondary aim of this evaluation is knowledge management and 
reviewing potential for scalability in rest of the provinces. Therefore, the evidences generated 
will also help in scaling up the project in other geographical areas in Pakistan and other settings. 
In a nutshell, generated evaluation report would be used to inform project strategy and activity 
design. It would help identify and capitalize on project strengths, correct weaknesses, set 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
16 
realistic goals, identify new areas of intervention, and provide guidance about best practices for 
replication and possible expansion. 
Specific Objectives of this midterm evaluation are: 
• 
To assess the extent to which the intended outcomes of the project are achieved by 
comparing it with the results from the baseline studies / evaluability assessment of the 
project; 
• 
To document the processes involved in achievement of the outcomes and identify gaps that 
has affected the project to ensure achieving results; 
• 
To review and assess proper utilization of supplies provided to beneficiaries at public 
facilities and identify the gaps in utilization;  
• 
To assess the potential for replicability and scalability; and 
• 
To provide guidance for improvement and course correction in all areas and programme 
strategies, and targets to ensure effective achievement of the results. 
Since the implementation of Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project is midway, this is the 
opportune time to conduct the midterm evaluation. It will help to carve out the future course of 
action and course correction to achieve the goals of the project. Consequently, Theory of 
Change (TOC), prepared at the inception of the project and provided in the TORs is revisited 
and updated based on the findings of the midterm evaluation. The midterm evaluation also 
upholds gender mainstreaming as it gives a chance to mothers to raise issues about their child’s 
health and the service provision. Mostly the mothers are not heard in their own households but 
this evaluation provides them with a platform to voice their concerns, which would ultimately 
contribute in policy change.  
The midterm evaluation mainly focuses on the implementation and programmatic 
dimensions of the project and it did not include any impact assessment regarding childhood 
morbidity and mortality, which would require a household survey and was beyond the scope of 
this evaluation.  
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
17 
2. Literature Review 
The literature review is conducted on the extant national and provincial level policies and 
management practices for Pneumonia and Diarrhea – including the shift from tablets and syrups 
to dispersible tablets; use of Low Osmolality ORS, Oxygen, ARI timers, Pulse Oximeters. It 
starts with a description of international context and best practices across the developing world, 
and current management practices for Pneumonia and Diarrhea. This section also gives a brief 
description of “Accelerating Policy Change, Translation and Implementation for Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea Commodities in Pakistan” being implemented through funding by Bill & Melinda 
Gates Foundation. It concludes with the gains if any that can be achieved at the midterm 
evaluation point keeping in view OECD/DAC criteria for evaluation. The literature included in 
this review was selected on the basis of their robustness of evidence as evident by the impact 
factor of the reviewed publications. Further secondary data for this midterm evaluation has been 
referred from sources like LHW-MIS, PSLM, PDHS, MICS and NNS. Desk review of project 
documents, existing child survival policies, strategies and guidelines related to Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea in relation to GAPPD have been taken into account but not limited to following. 
• 
National IMNCI guidelines (2010) 
• 
World Health Organization’s (WHO) 2014 IMCI recommendations 
• 
Provincial and Areas Health Strategies (2012-2020) 
• 
Pakistan’s National Drug Policy 
• 
The National Infant and Young Child Feeding (IYCF) Strategy 
• 
Pakistan’s Approach to Total Sanitation (PATS) 
• 
Scale-up Plan for Essential Medicines for Child Health 
• 
Ten Point Vision for RMNCAH & Nutrition 2015-2020 
• 
Integrated Community Case Management (ICCM) guideline and Treatment Guidelines 
This literature review further helped us identifying the list of indicators to address the 
evaluation objectives. The questions related to indicative areas (related to the OECD/DAC 
evaluation criteria, including relevance, effectiveness, efficiency, sustainability and cross-
cutting areas of equity and gender equality), have been taken into account while selecting these 
indicators. This evaluation matrix formed the basis of data collection and analysis.  
2.1 Global Scenario 
Substantial developments in terms of child survival were observed throughout the globe 
during the past two decades making it possible for millions of children have a better chance of 
survival then earlier times. Estimated mortality rate of children under the age of 5 is 9 million 
per annum: nearly all occurring in low-and middle-income countries (Houweling & Kunst, 
2009). Differences in equity of progress in reducing childhood mortality rates exist between and 
within countries. Dimensions of these inequities are complex and range from socioeconomic 
status, geographical location, urban and rural residence, gender and ethnic groups (Arregoces et 
al, 2015; UNICEF, 2018). Regions with socioeconomic disparities can experience under 5 
mortality rates as high as 9 out of every 10 children (Arregoces et al, 2015; UNICEF, 2018). 
Global burden of child deaths especially in low- and middle-income countries is a call for 
urgent and intense action to further rally the survival chances of children around the world. In 
developing countries, health care often counts on both public and private sectors. Regrettably, 
these sectors are often poorly coordinated, regulated, and supported, resulting in gaps in 
services, lost opportunities, and unsustainable system (Alijanzadeh et al., 2016). Available 
public health facilities are exhausted and depersonalized with low personal accomplishments 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
18 
due to massive disease burden and prevailing poverty and socio-economic constraints along 
with medical supply shortages (Rachiotis et al., 2014). While in private sector, patients have to 
bear out-of-pocket expenditure, which compels the underprivileged members of the society to 
fall in a vicious disease-poverty cycle, which leads to worsening of existing health condition 
and monetary constraints. 
2.1.1 Global Initiatives for Pneumonia and Diarrhea   
Since late 90s’, the emphasis on child health has been seen, either through global goals 
(MDGs and SDGs), IMCI programmes or Pneumonia and Diarrhea programmes (Taylor, 
Schumacher & Davis, 2016).  
Preventive and management initiatives around the globe are of significant consideration 
due to these high mortality rates. The Global Strategies for Women’s and Children’s Health 
developed by United Nations Secretary General in 2010 stresses on factors that can help control 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea by effective and proficient use of assets, that can in turn assist in 
establishment of synergies between allies (United Nations Secretary General, 2012).  
In the same way, The World Health Assembly Resolution 2010, supported all countries to 
implement the GAPP action plans at national levels. GAPP, action plan calls for the 
establishment of evidence-based policies and national plans’ for controlling Pneumonia 
(Resolution WHA63.24, 2010).  
United Nations Commission on Life-Saving commodities for Women and Children, in 
2012, targeted to improve marketing, supply and monitoring of neglected commodities while 
taking into consideration gap in demand and supply of commodities for Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea. Affordable commodities like Oral rehydration salt (ORS), Zinc DT and oral 
amoxicillin DT though inexpensive but proven to be effective measures for treating Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea were made part of commission’s mandate.  
To ensure the supply of commodities nationwide as well as to improve the market and 
quality of these commodities, the recommendation of involving potential stakeholders were 
made. As a result a complementary intervention The Global Vaccine Action Plan (GVAP) was 
launched by World Health Assembly, in 2012, to control the disease primarily Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea (WHO, 2012). Similarly, universal movement of UNICEF and USAID committing to 
child survival: A Promise Renewed, worked in 180 regimes and countries guaranteed scale up 
struggles to help curb the disease burden maternal, new-born and child mortality. 
The Every New-born Action Plan was established to demonstrate consent on the activities 
that were necessary to be taken to enhance the improvement on survival of newborn. Political 
will and activities with dedication were of great need in order to deliver assets to help reduce 
mortality due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea for which a focused struggle at universal level was 
made in 2012, named as Declaration on Scaling up Treatment of Diarrhea and Pneumonia. 
Where in all donors, industry and non-governmental organizations calls on high burden 
countries and international community for commitment towards provision of resources, political 
will and focused action. 
UNICEF and World health Organization tossed the Integrated Global Action Plan for 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD), suggesting a consistent methodology to address mortality 
rate due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea. GAPPD provides an opportunity for the global community 
to address these leading causes of child deaths in an integrated and coordinated fashion. By 
understanding the landscape of global child health initiatives and how they support and relate to 
the GAPPD, global donors and policymakers, alongside advocates and national decision-
makers, can maximize their investments and help ensure every child has the opportunity to 
secure a prosperous future (WHO/UNICEF, 2013). 
The use of ORS was successfully promoted in the era of mid 1980s; the use of ORS 
gained popularity in reducing Diarrhea related deaths in more than 100 states across the globe. 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
19 
Apex management of UNICEF made substantial efforts to attract political will and support for 
its usage in Diarrhea related illnesses. Systematic reviews revealed the significance of ORS in 
reducing Diarrhea related mortality rates to a 93 (percent) (Munos, Walker & Black, 2010). 
Despite this, the use of ORS came to a downturn in the mid-2000s due to several reasons, 
among which the major reason is lack of awareness and practices. 
For treatment of Pneumonia among children, Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI) 
programmes were initiated during 1990s, based on evidence from research studies focusing on 
childhood Pneumonia assessment and treatment with antibiotics in community settings. 
However, compared with the early years of Control of Diarrheal Diseases (CDD) programmes 
or immunization programmes, they were slower to be adopted or scaled up to a large extent.  
GAVI funded the Pneumonia DIP and the HiB Initiative aimed at country adoption of the 
new vaccines. This combined effort provided new, strong momentum for Pneumonia and helped 
reactivate the network of Pneumonia proponents (Berlan, 2015). At the global level, increased 
advocacy for policy and resources by more formal groups such as the Global Coalition against 
Child Pneumonia were seen (Taylor, Schumacher & Davis, 2016). . In 2011, the Diarrhea 
Pneumonia Working Group (DPWG) accumulated efforts for both disease conditions and 
supports the expansion of programmes in 10 high-burden countries (Taylor, Schumacher & 
Davis, 2016). 
UNICEF and WHO tossed the Integrated Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea (GAPPD), suggesting a consistent methodology to address mortality rate due to 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea. GAPPD provides an opportunity for the global community to address 
these leading causes of child deaths in an integrated and coordinated fashion. By understanding 
the landscape of global child health initiatives and how they support and relate to the GAPPD, 
global donors and policymakers, alongside advocates and national decision-makers, can 
maximize their investments and help ensure every child has the opportunity to secure a 
prosperous future (WHO/UNICEF, 2013). 
2.2 Pneumonia and Diarrhea Pakistan Context 
Among all the ailments, Diarrhea and Pneumonia are the prime causes of child mortality 
in Pakistan. Each year, approximately 91,000 deaths are attributed to Pneumonia and another 
53,300 lose their lives because of Diarrhea (UNICEF, 2019). Two-thirds of the child mortality 
due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea occurs in countries, mostly within in Asia, with Pakistan 
ranking third highest amongst them (PSLM, 2014-15).  
The policies working in Pakistan for child survival enhancement are; the National Health 
Vision 2016-2025, National and Provincial essential medicine lists, Integrated management 
system of Newborn and Childhood Illness, Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea, 
Child survival groups, current environment for updating commodities, Pakistan’s approach to 
Total Sanitation (PATS). 
2.2.1 Care Seeking and Referral 
Low care seeking behavior for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia has been 
observed in Pakistan. Disparities in care seeking behavior exist within different regions of 
Pakistan, such as in case of diarrhea, more than 75 percent and about 74 percent under-5 
children pursue care from a facility or healthcare provider in provinces of Punjab and Sindh 
respectively, however, trends declined in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (59.7 percent) and Baluchistan 
(63.1) (PDHS, 2018). Similar patterns have been noticed in Punjab and Sindh provinces for 
treatment of pneumonia amongst children under 5 years, who sought advice with 86.1 percent 
and 85.4 percent respectively. Nonetheless, improvement was seen for pneumonia treatment in 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (84.3%) and Baluchistan (62.2%) (PDHS, 2018). Use of Zinc 
supplements along with Low Osmolality ORS help reduce Diarrhea severity and duration 
(UNICEF National Nutrition Survey, 2018). Cost effective alternatives such as Amoxicillin 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
20 
Dispersible tablets, Pulse Oximeter, ARI timers and Oxygen therapy can help diagnoses, 
manage, treat and prevent childhood Pneumonia (UNICEF, 2018). Gender disadvantage has 
pervasive effects across the lifetime, much of it mediated through poor care (Qadir etal, 2011). 
In Pakistan, male gender preference is deeply embedded in the culture. In Pakistan medical care 
is sought for children more often for sons than daughters (Qadir etal, 2011). Critically ill male 
children are twice as likely to be treated in hospitals as compared to their counterparts (Qadir 
etal, 2011). 
2.2.2 Gender Equality 
Gender discrimination in child rearing, nutrition, health care seeking and education make 
woman highly vulnerable members of the society (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005). A core set of 
gender bottlenecks and barriers prevent the achievement of specific outcomes (UNICEF, 2014) 
and are discussed as follows: 
a) Women’s and girls’ lack of safety and mobility: 
Limited access to the outer world has been culturally entrenched in rural society, even if 
it is a matter of consulting a physician in emergency (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005).  
b) Women’s and girls’ lack of resources and decision making: 
Men play a paramount role in determining the health needs of woman (Shaikh & Hatcher, 
2005). The low status of women prevents them from recognizing and voicing their concerns 
about health care needs (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005). Women despite being primary caregivers for 
families in most instances have low control or autonomy and are often not allowed to visit a 
healthcare facility alone (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005). Lack of economic control and social 
dependence undermines women independence and decision making power (Shaikh & Hatcher, 
2005). This certainly has repercussions on health particularly in the case that they are the 
primary caregivers (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005). 
c) Limited access to information, knowledge, and technology and decision-making: 
Low or lack of Formal education amongst these women also accounts for poor 
understanding and recognition of seriousness of Diarrhea and Pneumonia resulting in 
unnecessary delay in care-seeking and low compliance (Bhutta & Hafeez). PDHS results on 
IMR clearly show that differences in equity of care exist between male and females gender 
disparities. Moreover, in the absence of mother as a primary caregiver, grandmothers are seen to 
be secondary caregivers (UNICEF, 2018). Knowledge of these elderly members is considered to 
be more reliable and acceptable on the basis of prior experience in raising children. However, 
limited exposure to new information and practices for treating Pneumonia and Diarrhea is seen 
as a disadvantage (Shaikh & Hatcher, 2005). 
2.2.3 Cultural Perceptions 
Across the developing world, females mostly suffer a great deal due to gender 
discrimination in child rearing, nutrition, healthcare seeking and education. A common practice 
in rural areas is to give more attention to a son when he is unwell as compared to a daughter and 
consequently taking the son to a formal facility while the daughter is given home remedies or 
taken to traditional healers. However, the extent and magnitude of gender discrimination varies 
by geographical, socio-economic, and demographic characteristics of the mother. Cultural 
perceptions and behavior around Pneumonia and Diarrheal diseases amongst caregivers of 
children under 5, impacts preventive practices, care seeking attitudes and management of these 
illnesses. Women are considered as primary caregivers for treating children with these illnesses. 
Low or lack of any formal education amongst a majority of these women results in delayed 
diagnosis which in turn leads to unnecessary delay in care seeking and low compliance for these 
illnesses (Bhutta & Hafeez, 2015). Women also face challenges with regards to financial 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
21 
empowerment. Males are seen to play a key role in final decisions including when and where to 
seek treatment resulting in delayed care seeking (Fatimi & Van, 2002).  
2.3 BMGF & Programme for Child Survival  
With the partnership of UNICEF and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF), the 
project “Accelerating Policy Change, Translation and Implementation for Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea Commodities in Pakistan”, has been established and is supposed to be implemented 
from 2016 to 2020. The project is designed to improve the diagnosis, treatment as well as 
prevention of Diarrhea and Pneumonia in Pakistan. Working in close collaboration of relevant 
stakeholders and Government of Pakistan, the overall purpose of this project is to contribute to 
the efforts to increase child survival in Pakistan, particularly by strengthening policy solutions 
for better diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in girls and boys under 5 year of 
age. 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
22 
3. Evaluation Methodology 
It is formative evaluation (intended to improve performance), where a mixed methods 
approach (quantitative and qualitative techniques) was employed and both primary and 
secondary data was collected, in wherever cases possible, disaggregated by gender. Rationale 
for mixing methods was to obtain complementary data on the outcomes of the interventions, 
viz., availability of revised and updated commodities at the public health facilities and their 
prescription to the children suffering from Pneumonia and Diarrhea whereas effects on 
treatment outcomes and acceptability in the population was assessed through qualitative 
techniques. Qualitative component comprised of desk review, key informant interviews, focus 
group discussions and case studies whereas quantitative was relatively small in overall 
evaluation design and comprised of health facilities checklist and prescription reviews. Guides 
and tools developed for this purpose focused on the entire pathway of policy transformation 
processes (policy change, policy translation, policy implementation and knowledge 
management). Meetings were held with the stakeholders and implementers to elicit information 
related to achievements and impediments during the Project, which informed and strengthened 
the interview guides and quantitative tools. The evaluation team worked in close collaboration 
with all stakeholders. UNICEF project teams from federal and provinces were closely involved 
through provincial consultative and preparatory meetings for seeking their inputs and feedback 
on evaluation approach. Stakeholders included federal and provincial governments, health 
facilities, outreach workers, private sector, donors and development partners and the ultimate 
beneficiaries. Gender mainstreaming was kept in consideration while devising the data 
collection process and tools. Gender balance was incorporated in the approach of the evaluation 
methodology along with exploring gender differentials and possible discriminatory practices 
against girl child during data collection.  
A conceptual framework for the midterm evaluation (Figure 2) was developed to describe 
the evaluation approach and techniques. Relevant methodologies were chosen for tracking 
effectiveness of different interventions and their effect on the beneficiaries.  
Figure 2: Midterm Evaluation – Conceptual Framework 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
23 
3.1 Evaluation Criteria and Questions 
Following the TORs of MTE, Evaluation Matrix (Annex 1) was developed considering 
the evaluation objectives as per OECD/DAC criteria namely relevance, effectiveness, efficiency 
and sustainability. In addition to DAC Criteria, cross-cutting areas of equity and gender equality 
were taken into consideration while designing this evaluation as well as the Convention on the 
Rights of the Child (2 September 1990) and Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of 
Discrimination against Women (18 December 1979) for incorporation of the UN and UNICEF's 
commitment to a human rights-based approach to programming to gender equality and to 
equity. All major evaluation questions were considered for discussion with stakeholders to 
conclude the findings of evaluation. Certain aspects of the DAC Criteria, like efficiency in terms 
of cost per beneficiary and comparison of the project cost with other similar interventions was 
not included in the scope of this evaluation. The Reference Group designated to review the 
technical approach and methodology of the evaluation endorsed this during the inception phase. 
Being a midterm evaluation, the impact criterion was not included in this evaluation. The MTE 
mainly focused on performance evaluation to see if the project was on track to achieve its 
desired outcomes and based on the lessons learnt what course corrective measures should be 
taken by the project and thus there was no counterfactual design adopted for this evaluation,; 
however, some of the  outcomes that could be assessed under this timeline were included under 
criteria of effectiveness and efficiency. Building on the objectives of the midterm evaluation, 
key evaluation questions were developed as part of the evaluation matrix, which addressed the 
following criteria:  
3.2.1 Relevance  
It is the extent to which the objectives of the development intervention suited to the 
priorities and policies of the target group, recipient and donor. In this MTE, relevance is 
evaluated through the following questions: 
• 
How relevant and meaningful are the project objectives and activities in addressing 
the needs and priorities of the marginalized and vulnerable children in the project 
areas? 
• 
To what extent the objectives of the project are consistent with the existing 
national/provincial policies and guidelines in line with global recommendations 
(WHO/ GAPPD) for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among under-five 
children in Pakistan and are sustainable? 
• 
Are the strategies or approaches appropriate and adequate to achieve results? 
3.1.2 Effectiveness  
Effectiveness is measure of the extent to which the development intervention attained its 
objectives. It was evaluated by the following questions: 
• 
To what extent the project has achieved its objectives/ outcomes and what were the 
major factors influencing the achievement or non-achievement of the objectives/ 
outcomes? 
• 
To what extent the implementation of the project approaches worked as intended, 
particularly after the baseline in 2016 and subsequent adjustments? 
• 
How effectively various Federal Ministry and Provincial Health Departments and 
Programmes coordinated among each other? 
• 
Whether the mechanisms available to create awareness among communities are 
effectively linked to the project objectives? 
• 
Whether the healthcare provider and community health workers have the required 
knowledge and skills to proper utilization of supplies as per standards? 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
24 
• 
Whether the monitoring and reporting mechanisms exist and effectively 
implemented for effective tracking and improvement in system? 
• 
How effective are the ‘innovative approaches like use of ARI timers and pulse 
oximeter, what results can be achieved, are replicable within the Sindh/Punjab 
context? 
• 
To what extent the project has been able to contribute to ownership and leadership of 
the provincial/ area DOHs?  
• 
What have been the major factors influencing the achievement or non-achievement 
of outcomes?  
3.1.3 Efficiency  
Efficiency measures the outputs – qualitative and quantitative – in relation to the inputs. It 
is an economic term and measures how economically resources/inputs (funds, expertise, time, 
etc.) are converted to results. For the MTE, efficiency was evaluated by the following questions: 
• 
How well the resources, both human and financial, been managed to ensure timely, 
attainment of results? 
• 
What are the implementation challenges from the perspective of both right holders 
and duty bearers especially for the under- five marginalized children of 
communities? 
• 
What is the value added in terms of improved delivery of services for Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea? 
• 
Whether the availability of P&D supplies is adequate, timely and whether they are 
prescribed? 
• 
To what extent has the project achieved its goals in enhancing the health outcomes 
especially of U5 children in the catchment communities in Sindh and Punjab target 
districts?  
3.1.5 Sustainability 
 Sustainability is concerned with measuring whether the benefits of an activity are likely 
to continue after donor funding has been withdrawn. In order to evaluate sustainability, 
following questions were framed: 
• 
What evidences exists to see the likelihood of the project results are sustained and 
will be adopted by the Government to ensure that the ultimate goal of the project is 
achieved? 
• 
What internal/external factors and drivers contribute to or constrain the sustainability 
of the project? 
• 
What is required to ensure prospects of sustainability of the project outcomes and the 
potential for replication or scale up of good practices and/or innovative approaches? 
3.1.6 Cross-cutting Areas  
Equity across the socioeconomic strata, gender equality and human rights based approach 
are the crosscutting areas considered in this MTE and are, addressed through following 
questions. The findings regarding these questions were embedded across the OECD/DAC 
criteria.  
• 
To what extent the crosscutting issues such as gender, equity and human rights were 
taken into account at various levels of planning and implementation? 
• 
Are the services provided gender responsive and whether they take the gender and 
human rights-based approach into account during implementation? 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
25 
• 
What have been the key lessons and experience of healthcare providers, Lady Health 
Workers and Lady Health Supervisors as agents of change and their contributions to 
other sectors?  
3.2 Evaluation Technique – Mixed Method 
This MTE employed mixed method approach with both qualitative and quantitative 
components. Having a formative evaluation design, the MTE relied heavily on qualitative 
component. A quantitative component was required to answer certain research questions 
pertaining to efficiency criterion, whereas qualitative data mainly answered the rest of 
OECD/DAC criteria. Quantitative data was limited to availability of new/revised commodities 
and their prescription to children in the surveyed health facilities. Qualitative data was collected 
through key informant interviews and focus group discussions with the relevant stakeholders 
while quantitative data was gathered through facility checklists and prescription review from the 
surveyed health facilities. Both purposive and random sampling techniques were utilized 
respectively for sample selection. At the level of selection of districts, purposive sampling was 
done to cater the geographic, demographic and socio-economic factors in the districts selection. 
Within districts, health facilities were randomly selected. This approach proved useful in 
covering the vast variations across the districts of the same province and providing certain 
degree of randomness in selection of health facilities. This approach was finalized after 
consultation with members of MTE reference group during inception phase through individual 
meetings and inception workshop. 
3.2.1 Geographical Scope 
 
The geographical scope of this project included the 5 districts of Punjab and all the 29 
districts of Sindh, where the Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project was being implemented. 
Figure 3: Selected Districts for Midterm Evaluation 
 
Pakpattan
Bhawalnagar
Therparkar
Karachi Malir
Karachi West
Muzaffargarh
Sujawal
Dadu
Jacobabad
Shaheed Benazirabad 
Khairpur
Ghotki
Midterm Evaluation Report 
26 
For sample selection of districts in Sindh, a divisional approach was adopted so that 
representation was uniform from within all 29 districts of Sindh. 7 districts were purposively 
selected from 6 divisions of Sindh while 2 districts from within 6 districts of Karachi were 
included. In total 9 districts of Sindh and 3 districts of Punjab (out of the five intervention 
district while catering to the geographical coverage of the project) were selected for the 
evaluation ensuring representation of all.  
Table 1: Project Implementation and Selection of Districts 
PUNJAB 
Total 
interventio
n districts 
05 (Bahawalnagar, Muzaffargarh, Rahim Yar Khan, Pakpattan, D G Khan) 
Selected 
districts 
Pakpattan 
Muzaffargarh 
Bahawalnagar 
SINDH 
Total 
interventio
n districts 
29 (entire province) 
Selected 
districts 
Karachi West 
Malir 
S. Benazirabad 
Ghotki 
Dadu 
Khairpur 
Jacobabad 
Tharparkar 
Sujawal 
Selection of districts in Sindh covered geographical, human development, and 
topographical variations. The following table shows the selected districts.  
Table 2: District Selection in Sindh – HDI and Geographical Variations 
District 
HDI Value 
Selected Districts 
Divisions of Selected 
Districts 
Karachi (all 06) 
0.789 
Karachi West 
Karachi Division 
Malir 
Ghotki 
0.71 to 0.68 
S. Benazirabad 
S. Benazirabad 
Division 
 
S. Benazirabad 
Sukkur 
TA Yar 
TM Khan 
Ghotki 
  
  
Sukkur Division 
  
Matiari 
Jamshoro 
Hyderabad 
0.679 to 0.62 
Dadu 
Hyderabad Division 
Mirpurkhas 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
27 
Dadu 
Khairpur 
Sanghar 
Khairpur 
Sukkur Division 
Naushahro Feroze 
Badin 
Shikarpur 
0.619 to 0.31 
Sujawal 
Larkana Division 
Sujawal 
Thatta 
Kambar 
Tharparkar 
Mirpurkhas Division 
Larkana 
Jacobabad 
Jacobabad 
Banbhore/Thatta 
Division 
Tharparkar 
 
3.2.2 Development of Data Collection Tools 
Data collection tools were developed in order to undertake a high quality; impartial, 
participatory, equity focused and gender responsive evaluation. Consultations and meetings 
were held with the relevant key stakeholders as a means to provide an opportunity for building 
consensus on evaluation methodology and tools. Tools were shared with government 
counterparts before the data collection began. A deductive approach was adopted in developing 
the data collection tools, which was guided by the Evaluation Matrix (Annex 1) along with desk 
review and documents and information received during consultations with the relevant 
stakeholders. All sets of tools were pre-tested. Feedback from pre-tests and review of relevant 
stakeholders were incorporated in finalizing the tools (See Annex 5 for data collection tools and 
guides). 
3.2.3 Qualitative Data Collection 
Stakeholders 
at 
primary 
departments, 
agencies 
and 
institutions 
at 
federal, 
provincial/regional level, selected districts level, facility in-charges; development partners and 
community level were engaged for qualitative data collection. Techniques employed for 
qualitative data collection included key informant interviews and focus group discussions. 
Limitations of both the techniques were kept in mind while designing the evaluation and 
identifying type of consultation for each stakeholder.  
Stakeholders engaged at policy change and policy translation levels were contacted 
through key informant interviews whereas Focus Group Discussions mainly generated 
information about policy implementation and its challenges. Key informant interviews gathered 
information from multitude of stakeholders from different institutions and organizations, both 
within and outside government, whereas Focus Group Discussions were used for obtaining 
insights from groups of professional (like general practitioners, medical store keepers, 
community workers) and perspective of beneficiaries. Although key informant interviews are 
susceptible to limitation of selecting right interviewee and challenge of scheduling interviews 
with policy making level respondents. In addition to technical reviews, Reference Group formed 
under the Ministry facilitated in selection of the right key informants and scheduling 
appointments. List of key informants is given in the following table.  
 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
28 
Table 3: Qualitative Sampling Matrix for Key Informant Interviews 
Sr. # 
Key Stakeholders 
Targeted Officials 
No. of 
KIIs 
Federal Level 
1.  
Ministry of National Health Services 
Regulation and Coordination 
Director & Deputy Director 
Programmes 
2 
2.  
Neonatology Children hospital, PIMS 
Associate Professor 
1 
Provincial Level 
3.  
Department of Health Sindh  
Representative 
1 
4.  
Department of Primary and Secondary 
Healthcare Punjab  
Representative 
1 
5.  
Directorates General of Health Services 
Punjab and Sindh  
DG Health 
2 
6.  
Director DHIS 
2 
7.  
Vertical Programmes (LHW Programme 
Sindh, MNCH Programme Sindh, 
IRMNCH & N Programme Punjab) 
Representatives 
3 
8.  
Implementing Partners of DOH Sindh 
(HANDS, MERF, PPHI, IHS) 
Representative 
4 
9.  
Pharmacists Associations / 
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers 
Representatives 
2 
10.  
Child Survival Groups Punjab and Sindh 
Representatives 
3 
11.  
Sindh Child Survival Programme  
Representative  
1 
12.  
Department of Pediatrics, Ganga Ram 
Hospital, Lahore 
Head of Department 
1 
13.  
Pakistan Pediatrics Association 
Representative 
1 
UNICEF Programme Staff 
14.  
Federal Staff  
Focal Persons 
2 
15.  
Provincial Staff  
Focal Persons (Sindh & Punjab) 
2 
Development Partners 
16.  
WHO 
Focal Person 
1 
17.  
Aga Khan University 
Focal Person 
1 
District Level 
18.  
District Health Department 
CEO/DHO along with LHW, MNCH 
and DHIS Coordinators 
12 
19.  
Health Facilities 
In-charges 
48 
Focus Group Discussions (FGDs) were conducted with Local Service Providers, 
Pharmacists/medical storekeepers, Community health workers (LHWs, LHS) and service 
users/mothers/care-givers of children under 5 years (16 FGDs with 6-8 participants each). 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
29 
Although FGDs face certain limitations but due to non-conflicting nature of childhood 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea, participants of the FGDs expressed their thoughts and discussed 
opportunities to save the children of their communities. Gender diversity was ensured among 
focus group members. The FGDs with LHWs and mothers (above 18 years) all had female 
participants. Numbers of FGDs are given in the following table.  
Table 4: Qualitative Sampling Matrix for Focus Group Discussions 
Sr. No. 
Types of Stakeholders 
No. of FGDs 
1.  
Service Providers (Private Practitioners) 
4 
2.  
Pharmacists and Medical Store Keeper 
4 
3.  
Community Health Workers (LHWs, LHSs) 
4 
4.  
Beneficiaries/Service Users (Over 18- Mothers/Caregivers of 
children under 5)  
4 
3.2.4 Quantitative Data Collection & Sampling  
Facility based data on prescription review was collected from 48 health facilities (24 
Basic Health Units and 24 Rural Health Centers) within 12 selected districts of both Punjab and 
Sindh. This sample of BHUs and RHCs was selected, considering the focus of P&D Project 
interventions at the district level. From each health facility total of 10 prescriptions were 
reviewed, making it a total of 360 prescriptions reviewed as part of the quantitative analysis, 
which was used to address the evaluation question under efficiency.  
Table 5: Quantitative Sampling Matrix for Health Facilities  
BHUs per district 
02 
RHC per district  
02 
Prescription reviews per facility 
10 
PUNJAB 
Number of districts 
03 
Number of BHUs in 03 districts 
06 
Number of RHCs in 03 districts 
06 
Number of prescriptions reviewed 
120 
SINDH 
Number of districts 
09 
Number of BHUs in 09 districts 
18 
Number of RHCs in 09 districts 
18 
Number of prescriptions reviewed 
360 
3.3 Secondary Data 
As reflected in the literature review section, desk review of all the relevant project data 
available at federal, provincial and district level was conducted to inform the scope of the 
project and to develop a better insight of the current scenario. A comprehensive list of 
documents, not limited to Pneumonia and Diarrhea Strategic Framework, Federal and Provincial 
Policies and strategies, Provincial PC-1s, federal and provincial programmes and operational 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
30 
plans, Global mandates such as SDGs, UHC and National Health Vision, GAPDD Report, 
Evaluability study/baseline landscape and Pneumonia and Diarrhea project periodic monitoring 
and evaluation data, targets and monthly reporting data were taken into consideration to develop 
a thorough understanding of the project. Other documents reviewed included Project Documents 
for policy, systems, management and Supply chain management review as well as for Gender, 
Social Exclusion and Poverty (GSEP) analysis. Latest rounds of available datasets like PSLM, 
PDHS, MICS, HFA and NNS, Audit reports and financial documents with necessary 
information were taken into account. Routine information systems including DHIS, LHW-MIS 
and LMIS were also be a part of the review for their potential for updating and building 
linkages. Moreover, provincial and district offices were also visited to obtain relevant data as 
indicated in ‘Evaluation Matrix’. 
3.4 Evaluation Team  
A team of experts having the required skill mix was organized for efficient and effective 
completion of the evaluation activities. The organogram of the midterm evaluation team is given 
in Figure 4 and details of individual team members are given in Annex 2. 
3.4.1 Roles and Responsibilities 
A Principal Investigator led the team that included evaluation and research experts, 
medical anthropologist, data manager and field data collection teams. Technical team was 
working in close association for developing tools and the collaboration continued in data 
collection and data analysis. Research associates as well as transcribers were engaged after the 
data collection phase. Field team comprised of field manager who supervised field teams. 
Technical team members participated in data collection at federal and provincial levels along 
with all interactions with the UNICEF counterparts. Field teams were responsible for gathering 
information at district level. Four field teams conducted facility-based survey, each team with 4 
persons. 1 team was formed in Punjab with 1 male supervisor and 3 other team members (2 
females and 1 male). In Sindh, 3 teams with similar composition were established. For District 
level KIIs, FGDs and case studies, 4 teams of Sociologists (1 Moderator and 1 Note taker in 
each team), 1 team in Punjab and 3 teams in Sindh were formed. Punjab’s team covered all the 3 
districts in Punjab while 3 teams in Sindh catered to the 9 districts of Sindh. It was ensured that 
all field team members were fluent in native language and well versed in local customs. Teams 
were identified, recruited, organized, trained and supervised. Guidance and support was sought 
throughout the evaluation process from backstopping team comprising of health policy and 
systems expert and procurement and supply chain expert. 
Figure 4: Organogram of Evaluation Team 
 
Backstopping 
& Advisory 
Team 
Principal Investigator 
Evaluation 
Expert 
Research 
Expert 
Research 
Associate 
Qualitative 
Research 
Expert 
Medical Anthropologist 
Transcribers  
Senior Bio-Statistician/Data Manager 
Field Manager/ 
Supervior 
Field teams  
Enumerators 
Sociologists 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
31 
Through this qualified and experienced team, the following aspects of the evaluation were 
strengthened in addition to overall assurance of the quality of evaluation work. 
• 
Developing and implementing a transparent system for evaluation 
• 
Having adequate number of well trained and qualified staff 
• 
Developing strong participation approach 
• 
Basing decisions and making recommendations on quality information 
3.5 Procedural Steps and Quality Assurance Mechanisms 
3.5.1 Ethical Considerations 
Ethical considerations for this evaluation are built on UNICEF Procedure for Ethical 
Standards in Research, Evaluation, Data Collection and Analysis and to the UNICEF Strategic 
Guidance Note on Institutionalizing Ethical Practice for UNICEF Research. The ethical review 
board (ERB) of UNICEF cleared this evaluation and their certificate is attached at Annex 3.  
Both Field and technical teams maintained the highest standards of integrity, sensitivity, 
and confidentiality in dealing with informants, to ensure that the dignity, human, and civil rights 
of people involved, are respected. Overall, the ‘do no harm’ principle was applied throughout, 
especially when working in the field. UNICEF’s protocol on Ethical Standards in Research and 
Data Collection and UNEG’s ethical standards for data collection and evaluation was also 
incorporated in the trainings and ensured that it was strictly being observed. Additionally, 
following ethical considerations were imparted for data collection: 
Informed Consent: Interviewers respected the rights of interviewed individuals. Every 
individual had the right to refuse to participate, or to refuse to answer specific questions. Verbal 
and written consent was sought after explaining the objective of evaluation, data collection 
procedures, along with risks and benefits. Field staff read out contents of consent forms and 
clarified any apprehensions of respondent/participants and interviews only continued after 
getting a formal approval.  
 Privacy: It is important that data collection process be conducted in a manner, 
comfortable for each respondent, and in which the individual is able to speak openly and 
honestly. The enumerators and facilitators made sure that the place of interview provided 
privacy for the interviews and FGDs. 
Confidentiality: Interviewers may not discuss participants’ answers with anyone, except 
the supervisor when clarification was needed. Individuals’ names or other identifying 
information was not be linked to any responses.  
Safety and security of data: Hard copies such as interview notes, prints of photographs 
and audio recordings was kept securely in a locked cabinet that can only be accessed by agreed 
members of the MTE team. Soft copies in the computers were encrypted / password protected. 
All data will be securely kept for up till three years and then safely disposed off.  
Conflict of interest: Being a primary element of a staff member’s obligation to maintain 
integrity, independence and impartiality required, there should be no conflict of interest. No 
actual and potential conflicts of interests were identified for the evaluation team. 
Addressing Gender and Child Rights Issues: Gender equality is a human rights issue and 
a prerequisite for sustainable development. According to human rights principles of equality and 
non-discrimination, everyone is entitled to equal enjoyment of their rights and the 
responsibilities and opportunities that come along, regardless of their gender. In Pakistani 
society gender is a major organizing principles. Local traditions and culture embody values pre-
determining gender roles in the community. There is substantial diversity in the status of women 
as well as rights of the children across classes, regions, and rural/urban divide due to uneven 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
32 
socioeconomic development and the impact of tribal, feudal, and social formations on women 
and children's lives. This evaluation kept in consideration gender, child rights and social 
exclusion barriers during varied phases of evaluation including activity designing, consultations 
and stakeholder engagement, staff hiring and training, monitoring and was ensured in data 
analysis.  
Selection of field teams ensured gender balance. Further, during training of field teams, 
gender and child rights orientation was given as part of the evaluation design. Evaluation 
approaches and activities were revised to safeguard sensitivity in understanding gender values 
as well as child rights according to CRC. At large, all stages of the evaluation cycle were 
assessed through the lens of gender, social exclusion, child rights and equity, ensuring that it 
was reflected in the findings and recommendations. 
3.5.2 Risks Management 
Risk management plan was developed, identifying events in which the team foresees 
numerous potential risks and constraints, which may affect the evaluation adversely. 
Accordingly, mitigation measures were adopted to ensure a robust evaluation process and 
outcome like data quality, consistency and others. A risk register was prepared at the inception 
of the project and is attached as 6. 
3.5.3 Backstopping  
Backstopping and quality assurance mechanism was established and a consensus was 
built on what activities and outputs to be monitored, how to monitor and what information are 
required to monitor them. Backstopping and Advisory team carried out this task. Monitoring 
and regular progress updates were used as a way of assuring quality.  
3.5.4 Continuous Liaison with UNICEF Team 
Evaluation team worked in close collaboration and continuous liaison with UNICEF 
Evaluation and Research Unit, PMU as well as UNICEF’s Gender Specialist and Gender Focal 
Point in Health Section. The data collected is the sole property of UNICEF.  
3.5.5 Inception Phase 
Preparatory meetings were held with relevant UNICEF staff at Punjab and Sindh to 
develop a deeper understanding of project component, implementation approaches, activities 
and guidance on evaluation framework. The aim of these initial meetings was to gain a 
consensus on evaluation design, methodology/implementation strategies and work plan. During 
these pre-inception meetings and informal consultations, many relevant documents and pieces 
of information were shared which have facilitated Contech in informing the scope of the 
evaluation. A Reference Group was established for quality assurance of all key deliverables. A 
formal Evaluation Management Team was also formed for this assessment, which comprises of 
evaluation teams from both UNICEF and Contech. This facilitated close coordination and 
collaboration with UNICEF since the commencement of the project. 
The inception meeting took place on 4th July 2019 in Islamabad. Federal Ministry, 
provincial departments, donors, development partners and UNICEF project team participated in 
the meeting and gave comprehensive feedback on all sections of the inception report. Based on 
the feedback received during the meeting, the Inception Report was revised. The final inception 
report had the technical approach and methodology of the midterm evaluation among key 
stakeholders.  
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
33 
3.5.6 Field-testing and Finalization of Data Collection Tools 
Approved tools after the inception meeting were further tested in the field, in same 
settings followed by adjustments, if needed, to determine: 
• 
Any problem in language of questionnaire and skip patterns if any; 
• 
Completion of interview in a given time; and 
• 
Clarity of enumerators on questionnaire. 
Field‐testing was conducted systematically, with potential respondents by using the same 
method of administration. Considering the feedback of field‐testing, any changes in tools were 
made and shared with UNICEF Evaluation Management Team. 
   3.5.7 Recruitment of Field Staff 
Appropriate and qualified field staff members for evaluation were identified, short listed 
and then hired. Field teams was constituted striking a gender balance. Following were the 
structure and composition of the teams: 
• 
2 Teams with Technical team members conducted Federal and Provincial level 
KIIs in Punjab and Sindh 
• 
Facility Based Survey (In total 12 persons) for 18 days 
• 
Punjab: 1 team of 3 persons (2 females +1 male) for 18 days 
• 
Sindh: 3 team of 3 persons each (6 females + 3 males) for 18 days 
• 
District level KIIs, FGDs and Case studies (In total 8 persons) for 10 days 
• 
District level KIIs were done by a team of Sociologists (male moderator and 
female note-taker) 
• 
Punjab (3 districts): 1 team of 2 Sociologists (1 male and 1 female) for 10 days 
• 
Sindh (9 districts): 3 team of 2 Sociologists (1 male and 1 female) each for 10 
days 
The technical team members conducted federal and provincial KIIs. The district data 
collection teams were responsible for conducting district specific KIIs, FGDs and districts’ 
office visits. It was ensured that they must be graduates, fluent in native language and well 
versed with the local customs.  
Teams were monitored by Field Manager, who shall act as coordinator and responsible 
for overall supervision and reporting to technical team. Field teams were identified, recruited, 
organized, trained and supervised by Contech, which was also be responsible for supervision, 
transportation and logistics of team movements, and their subsequent payments.  
3.5.8 Training of Field Staff  
The field training was conducted at the highest professional level and in a systematic 
manner that ensured timely and quality completion of data collection exercise within the 
stipulated time. This included finalization of field plans, availability of printed material, training 
guide and nametags etc. Specific attention was paid to ensure that training environment is 
conducive, without disturbance, with sufficient seating arrangements, keeping participants, 
trainers and field monitors in consideration. A team of trainers consisting of 2 males and 4 
females conducted the three-day training sessions. 
A detailed training manual for the field teams was prepared with clear instructions and 
guidelines, which was distributed among the data collectors. This training guide covered topics 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
34 
including evaluation protocols, how to approach the concerned participants, how and when to 
probe, ethical requirements, filling of tools and recording necessary information while ensuring 
completeness and quality. This document was easily referred to in case of any confusion faced 
in the field. Ethical considerations including confidentiality, informed consent, privacy and 
anonymity were incorporated in the training sessions. Specific attention was paid to ensure that 
data collectors had a clear idea of the objectives of evaluation so that they were aware when to 
elicit information. Training topics included: 
• 
Purpose of evaluation and its goals and objectives; 
• 
Methodology and technique; 
• 
Ethical requirements;  
• 
Techniques of filling out tools; and  
• 
Field simulation  
Data collection teams were trained in the following two levels in order to achieve uniform 
standards while ensuring quality: 
• 
One day training of technical team members for visits/consultations at 
federal/provincial level KIIs was conducted. 
• 
A 3-day training of field team at a central level training workshop for 
enumerators and sociologists (moderators/note-takers) conducted in Lahore for 
district specific KIIs, FGDs, case studies and districts’ offices visits.  
3.5.9 Development of Field Micro-plans  
Followed by the field simulation activity, detailed micro-plans were developed on the last 
day of training, which was shared with the monitoring and evaluation teams. The micro-plan 
entailed day-to-day data collection activities of each field team, ensuring that the provided 
trainings were put to practical use and that the data collection was being carried out in the 
required manner. Micro-plans facilitated the monitoring of data collection activities in the field 
and addressed any issues that arose during the process. The training agenda and field micro-plan 
were shared with UNICEF for the comments and feedback before finalization.  
3.5.10 Monitoring of Field Data Collection  
A thorough monitoring mechanism at both macro and micro levels was employed for 
assuring quality and gender disaggregation of collected data, by developing monitoring tools, 
their field-testing and modification. A monitoring and evaluation plan of the field activities were 
developed along with detail procedures and protocols that were shared with UNICEF. A 
participatory monitoring and evaluation approach was adopted, involving stakeholders and 
beneficiaries in the process of data collection. Specific measures were established to ensure 
proper accountability and transparency throughout the evaluation, specifically during the data 
collection phase. Senior Technical team was assigned task of assuring data quality and was 
responsible for: 
• 
Accompanying Calls: observing some of the interviews to ensure that the interviewers were 
conducting the interview well, asking the questions in the right manner and interpreting the 
answers correctly. 
• 
Conducting Spot Checks: to ensure that the questions were asked properly and recorded 
appropriately and that respondents are being identified correctly. UNICEF Evaluation and 
Research Unit also conducted the spot checks of the teams during the interviews and FGDs.  
• 
Questionnaire Completion Reviews: reviewing a proportion of questionnaires to ensure that 
they were complete and internally consistent.  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
35 
• 
Micro-plan based data collection: A day-wise field micro plan was prepared and shared 
with the UNICEF and the relevant stakeholders at Ministry and provincial departments for 
joint supervision. 
3.5.11 Fieldwork and Data Collection  
The course of data collection took place as per the detailed micro-plan. The entire 
evaluation fieldwork was completed within a span of 6 weeks. However, the technical team 
reconnected with certain key informants to elaborate further on their discussion during the 
report-writing phase. 
   3.6 Data Management  
 3.6.1 Data Handling and Record Keeping 
In order to ensure the quality of data, field manager reviewed/checked tools for 
completeness and logical errors. Technical team reviewed collected data to assure quality 
standards. All completed tools were kept confidential after entry, analysis, and report writing. It 
was ensured that only authorized personnel have access to the filled tools. Electronic soft data 
was stored in a database while reports are entered whereas entered data was kept in folders and 
backup for safety purposes.  
Data gathered through KIIs and FGDs was recorded and transcribed. After collection of 
field data each completed tool was reviewed before submission. Routine data transfer was done 
on a Periodic basis to the Team Leader by field team. To minimize human error, double data 
entry was done whereas transcription carried out carefully considering all field notes to ensure 
the proper flow and recording of valuable information. Physical validation of a sample of data 
was conducted during routine monitoring visits. Once data was collected, cleaned and secured, 
it was transcribed for analysis. Field teams transcribed data of KIIs and FGDs. To ensure secure 
and efficient data management during the fieldwork and data collection phase, following 
procedures was adopted:  
• 
Data capture – FGDs and IDIs were recorded and transcripts were prepared; collection of 
survey data, semi-structured interviews were supervised by District Supervisors who were 
responsible for checking each completed questionnaire before submission to the Contech’s 
Provincial/Regional Coordinator. 
• 
Routine data transfer – Weekly reporting was done by Provincial/Regional Coordinator 
• 
To minimize human error – Data entry was done after forms were checked by both 
District Supervisor and Provincial/Regional Coordinator. Desk editing team was placed at 
Head Office who edited the data of any errors. 
• 
Data verification – Physical validation of data sample was conducted during routine 
monitoring visits and ensured that collected data was gender disaggregated.  
 3.6.2 Data Analysis  
Qualitative analysis was characterized by reducing the overwhelming amount of data by 
identifying the content of more or less encompassing data segments. This analysis was 
conducted manually, exploring the complex phenomena hidden in data to manage, extract, 
compare, explore, and reassemble meaningful pieces from large amounts of data in creative, 
flexible, yet systematic ways.  A "code" as abbreviation or name was attached to each segment. 
These codes were used as representatives of data segments or "units of meaning" in the data. A 
coding framework based on the themes given in the interview guides was designed. Transcripts 
were examined manually to identify codes using thematic content analysis and a system of 
constant comparison. They were read several times, choosing units of meaning, identifying 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
36 
general themes, categorizing and classifying. This involved going through the data several 
times, making comparisons and connections until no further codes were identified and until data 
was saturated. Once codes were identified, they were categorized under each of the main themes 
used in the interview guides. The technical team carried out coding and thematic analysis and 
differences in opinion was resolved by mutual consensus. Quantitative data analysis was 
processed using SPSS. Initial task in analysis was to produce draft dummy tables and based on 
data, graphs and descriptions were included in the report. At the end, triangulation was applied 
to both qualitative and quantitative findings with secondary data while presenting evaluation 
findings and recommendations. The evaluation matrix provides a framework on the basis of 
which the collected data was analyzed and triangulated, as given in Annex 1. 
3.6.3 Report Compilation 
Initially, draft report entailing preliminary findings of data gathered was submitted to 
UNICEF on which feedback was sought. Draft report was developed, entailing details of 
evaluation scope and objectives, methodology, evaluation matrix, key findings and 
recommendations. The draft encompassed the comprehensive quantitative and qualitative 
analysis of strengths, weaknesses, achievements, and recommendations to improve performance 
in future. A ‘Theory of Change’ is an integral part of the final report that entailed pathway for 
course correction and continuity of these interventions beyond the project life. In order to 
effectively disseminate the findings, the evaluation team developed two case studies based on 
the achievements and successes of the project to bring sustainable improvement in management 
of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea by health facilities and outreach workers.  
3.7 Limitations of the Evaluation 
This midterm evaluation carries certain limitations that affected the interpretation of the 
findings. The technical team took appropriate measures and used certain techniques to minimize 
these limitations.  
Attribution of the outcomes with project interventions was a key limitation. The 
evaluation team conducted the comparisons with the baselines studies and asking the 
respondents to compare the before and after comparisons of the Pneumonia and Diarrhea 
Project to estimate a fair level of attribution.  
Generalizability of the quantitative findings will not be possible as the purposive 
sampling was done for selection of the districts and health facilities within districts.  
Reliability and validity of findings could be a possible limitation as multiple teams 
collected data at different sites and they might have conducted the interview and discussion 
somewhat differently. Extensive efforts on development of questionnaires, pre-testing, actual 
practicing on the questionnaires and data collection tools during the training helped mitigating 
this limitation. 
Limitations of OECD/DAC Criteria due to overlapping of information among criteria 
could result in repetitions of findings or analysis. Evaluation team remained cognizant of this 
limitation during interpretation of findings.  
Knowledge Assessment of care providers on use of updated commodities and their level 
of competence was not assessed as it was beyond the scope of this evaluation.  
 
 
 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
37 
4. Evaluation Findings 
This section provides the findings of the midterm evaluation in terms of the achievement 
of project outcomes, involved processes and their conformance against the OECD/DAC 
evaluation criteria, including relevance, effectiveness, efficiency, sustainability and cross-
cutting areas of equity and gender equality.  
4.1 Status of Project Outcomes 
Project outcomes pertaining to policy change, policy translation, policy implementation 
and knowledge management were identified at the inception of the project and later on were 
incorporated in the TOC, which was developed retrospectively. As part of this midterm 
evaluation, achievement against each outcome and areas for further improvement were assessed 
to propose actionable recommendations. Overall, objectives of the project were consistent with 
the national policies and strategic frameworks. The implementation of the project has paved 
way for building a dynamic policy environment for child survival. It further ensures that every 
girl and boy has access to proven preventive and treatment measures through evidence based 
updated medical commodities for management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. With the help of 
this integrated package of high impact and good quality healthcare commodities, the project has 
contributed to uplift the health of marginalized children with a special focus ensuring a 
continuum of care from communities to health facilities. Various national and provincial 
policies and guidelines were updated through this project to align them with the global 
recommendations, including GAPPD, for the management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Status 
of the achievement of specific project targets and the underlying process is described for each 
outcome area.  
4.1.1 Project Oversight and Coordination 
A project accountability framework was developed as part of the baselines landscape 
analysis. This accountability framework identified the pathways of change in strategic areas 
along with timelines and assigned roles and responsibilities of all the stakeholders. At the 
federal level, a Project Steering Committee was established, which was later merged in National 
RMNCAH&N TWG due to similar TORs and membership. At provincial levels, initially Child 
Survival Groups were notified in both Sindh and Punjab provinces. However, as a course 
corrective measure, the CSG of Sindh was subsumed in the MNCH Technical Working Group 
to avoid duplication as both had the same mandate and stakeholders participation. Through 
these oversight and coordination forums, government stakeholders and key development 
partners had been meeting regularly over the project life to review implementation and progress 
against the planned child survival activities. UNICEF provided the essential support throughout 
the 
project 
in 
implementation 
of 
the 
decisions 
and 
recommendations of these committees/groups to achieve its 
overarching goal of child survival. A Senior Provincial Manager 
described the role of CSG as, “…Before we had no platform to 
discuss the issues related to child survival, CSG are of immense 
significance in uniting all relevant stakeholders. CSG’s are a think 
tank to the government on child mortality.” 
The support in implementing the joint accountability framework in its strategic areas 
(policy change, updates to clinical management practices, strengthened logistic and procurement 
system, budgeting and role of media) ensued in practical implementation of child survival 
policies.  
 
 
A senior provincial 
manager 
described 
the 
CSG/TWG as “a think tank 
to the government on child 
mortality”.  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
38 
4.1.2 Revision of IMNCI Guidelines and Manuals 
A key action proposed in the accountability 
framework of the project was to update and reduce the 
number of days for in-service abridged IMNCI training 
manuals to six days from 11 days, with an enhanced focus 
on management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Various 
concrete steps were taken by the relevant stakeholders 
under the stewardship of Federal Ministry and supported 
by Provincial Health Departments to update the IMNCI 
manuals. At MoNHSR&C, national consultant was hired 
in consultation with WHO to help draft the revised IMNCI training manuals so that they are 
aligned with Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPDD) and WHO updated 
recommendations. As a result, key development partners and stakeholders, including WHO, 
UNFPA, USAID, DFID, Agha Khan University, and other NGOs and academic institution 
worked closely to revise and update IMNCI guidelines. In this regard, a series of consultative 
meetings under the supervision of MoNHSR&C and respective Health Departments, 
development partners and key decision makers were organized for seeking technical inputs and 
consensus-building during the drafting of IMNCI manuals.  This effort has been lead by the 
WHO and based on the findings from the sixteen controlled trials on updated IMNCI conducted 
in nineteen countries. Meanwhile, the pre-service and community IMNCI components were also 
drafted and being reviewed by UNICEF/ROSA and WHO/EMRO team at the time of MTE. 
They are now nearing finalization to be ready for use in the respective trainings. UNICEF 
provided technical assistance for the development of these new training guidelines; while all the 
stakeholders agreed to undergo trainings with the in-service IMNCI six-day abridged course. 
The abridged course underwent pilot trials and was finally endorsed by National Taskforce for 
IMNCI in 2017. The IMNCI package was disseminated after its notification by the 
MONHSR&C in 2108. Federal Manager highlighting the significance of abridge version of 
IMNCI stated, “IMNCI has been reduced from 11 days to six day abridge course with an 
enhanced focus on management of pneumonia and diarrhea.” 
Sindh government has trained six batches on in-service IMNCI guidelines with support 
from UNICEF and WHO and pre-service IMNCI guidelines are being made a part of curriculum 
and examination in medical universities. The reduced cost associated with trainings of shorter 
duration makes it cost effective and provides an opportunity to train more health workers in the 
health facilities.  
4.1.3 Updating Essential Medicines and Procurement Lists 
The project advocated extensively with federal and provincial governments for the 
revision of Essential Medicines and Procurement Lists to include the updated commodities for 
better management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea for both intervention provinces.  
The project supported and facilitated widespread 
consultations (coordination committees, steering committees 
and programme management units) at national and provincial 
levels comprising of the relevant policy makers and partners 
to review the existing lists and update them with the 
inclusion of revised commodities for management of 
childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Evidence-based policy 
briefs were prepared by the project on benefits of 
Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, co-packaged ORS and Zinc, Pulse 
Oximeters, ARI timer and oxygen in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea, which were 
disseminated during the consultative meetings. Resultantly, updated lists included Amoxicillin 
DT, Lo-ORS, Zinc DT, ARI Timers, Pulse Oximeters and Oxygen for appropriate levels of 
service delivery. Now, the project is facilitating the operationalization of these lists for regular 
A federal manager while 
discussing 
the 
revision 
of 
IMNCI explained, “This is a 
difficult 
task, 
which 
was 
achieved through coordinated 
efforts by all the partners, 
including WHO and UNICEF.” 
“UNICEF 
Pneumonia 
and 
Diarrhea 
Project 
has 
popularised the DTs, now we 
all are aware of the benefits of 
switching to their use.” 
Member of TWG/CSG 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
39 
procurement by provincial procurement committees led by Health Secretary. The project further 
advocated for inclusion of the revised commodities in essential package of health services 
(EPHS) in Sindh, Minimum Service Delivery Package (MSDP) in Punjab, Minimum Service 
Delivery Standards (MSDS) and its endorsement from relevant CSG/TWG.  
Figure 5: Revision of IMNCI Guidelines 
 
4.1.4 Augmentation of Information Systems 
The project supported the revision and enhancement of DHIS tools with inclusion of new 
indicators as well as the GAPPD recommendations, like updated commodities for management 
of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and indicators on safe drinking water, exclusive breast feeding and 
new vaccines. Furthermore, MIS of LHWs were updated to reflect the new commodities. 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
40 
This change facilitated the report on stock outs of 
Amoxicillin DT and Zinc DT to the district and provincial 
managers. Sindh has upgraded and revised DHIS tools 
and procedure manual. New draft of DHIS tolls, includes 
indicators about availability of Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT 
and Low osmolarity ORS in the stock available at the 
facility. Section 12-A of DHIS includes Amoxicillin and Zinc 
DTs in the section of stock out reports. ARI Timers, Pulse Oximeter, ARI Timer and availability of 
Oxygen have been added in the section of stock out report. It also has a provision of entering OPD 
data for Diarrhea and dysentery separately for under 5 children (previously there was 
provision for entry of combined data only). Moreover, an age slot has been added to 
differentiate data of neonatal deaths from infant and U5 deaths. UNICEF has supported the 
printing of materials. All the GAPPD recommendations have been included in the updated 
DHIS tools. The revision of DHIS was not limited to the Pneumonia and Diarrhea 
commodities as the project leveraged the opportunity to update other MNCH related 
indicators including information on new vaccines and maternal health. A Provincial Manager, 
while highlighting the significance of updated DHIS tools, stated; 
 “Previously OPD data for diarrhea and dysentery were reported together. The updated 
DHIS has the provision of entering OPD data for Diarrhea and dysentery separately for under 5 
children an age slot has been added to differentiate data of neonatal deaths from infant and U5 
deaths.” 
Considering the significant role of MIS system in combating mortality and morbidity 
due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Punjab, a new PC-1 is being developed for up-grading 
DHIS through technical support of UNICEF. In 
addition to development of PC-1, the project has 
committed support for upgrading the software 
(one time support). The updated information 
system – DHIS-2 – will have mechanism to collect 
and disseminate data of disease prevalence on daily 
basis and generate alert for any suspected disease out-
break/epidemic to ensure timely response. It will further 
have provision for data sharing at district, provincial, 
federal levels. Provincial Manager from Punjab stated, 
“The previous information system lacked collection and dissemination of data on a 
daily basis. The updated information system – DHIS-2 – will have mechanism to collect 
and disseminate data of disease prevalence on daily basis and generate alert for any 
suspected disease out-break/epidemic to ensure timely response.” 
Based on a recommendation made in the situation analysis of supply chain management 
to introduce a comprehensive HLMIS, the MoNHSR&C organized a think tank meeting to 
review and discuss the upgrading and linkages between LMIS and DHIS. UNICEF provided 
support to the government for establishment and strengthening of comprehensive supply chain 
management system including forecasting, procurement, distribution, and real time stock 
maintenance and warehousing. This involves different programmes to create a digitalized 
HLMIS, integration of the software with other available data management systems including 
vLMIS and cLMIS and to establish its linking with DHIS-2. The updated LMIS will not only 
contain information along these two illnesses but will also cover MNCH commodities listed in 
the EMLs. This project is about to be piloted in 5 districts of Sindh and 05 districts of Punjab, 
where rest of the project interventions are going on from December 2019.  
 
 
“Technical experts from 
Oslo University have visited us 
and we are aiming at fast-track 
implementation with support of 
donors 
and 
development 
partners.” 
Provincial Manager in Punjab 
“DHIS 2 would help 
Pakistan to move from no data 
to data visibility and would 
help 
improve 
all 
LMIS 
practices.” 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
41 
4.1.5 Capacity building on updated commodities 
A pool of master trainers was trained at the provincial level to roll out trainings for 
healthcare providers from the districts. These trainings included the orientation on the use 
of updated commodities in management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea, and revised 
recording and reporting tools of DHIS. In Sindh, total of 9,742 doctors, including medical 
officers from district level healthcare faculties, private family physicians and paediatricians 
were trained on use of updated commodities. Out of these, 8, 102 were also oriented on the use 
of revised DHIS tools for recording and reporting of information. Total of 22,700 Lady Health 
Workers (LHWs) were covered in these trainings from all 29 districts, covering ~100% of 
LHWs strength of Sindh province. In Punjab, in addition to doctors, LHWs and LHSs, Lady 
Health Visitors were also trained on use of updated commodities and MIS. Based on the project 
data, details of individual trainings are provided in the following table.  
Table 6: Trainings under P&D Project 
Cadre-wise number of staff receiving training under P&D Project 
 
Cadre & Type of Trainings 
 
Number of staff trainings conducted 
 
 
 
Punjab 
Sindh 
Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Doctors 
(Pediatricians and Medical Officers) 
 
 
 
  
 
DHIS 
 
440 
8,102 
8,542 
 
 
Use of updated commodities 
 
440 
9,742 
10,182 
 
 
IMNCI (In-service) 
 
- 
77 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lady Health Workers (LHWs) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MIS 
 
7,088 
22,700 
29,788 
 
 
Use of updated commodities 
 
7,088 
22,700 
29,788 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lady Health Visitors (LHVs) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MIS 
 
700 
- 
700 
 
 
Use of updated commodities 
 
700 
- 
700 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lady Health Supervisors (LHSs) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MIS 
 
280 
725 
1,005 
 
 
Use of updated commodities 
 
- 
725 
725 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1.6 Knowledge Management 
The good practices and lessons learnt during the project from its inception to its 
implementation in the selected provinces, the challenges faced and their mitigation strategies are 
altogether intangible assets that needs to be translated to broader settings for replication and up 
scaling within and outside Pakistan. UNICEF, starting from the inception phase, ensured the 
participation of government stakeholders for enhanced communication thereby helping in 
creating, storing, transferring and application of the knowledge to these provinces and regions. 
In this regard, the project engaged policy makers and planners from remaining two provinces 
(Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) and three regions (Gilgit Baltistan, Azad Jammu & 
Kashmir and the Federally Administered Tribal Areas – now merged districts of Khyber 
Pakhtunkhwa) and made them an essential part of National RMNCAH&N TWG. Building on 
the decisions taken during these meetings, the remaining provinces and regions has taken certain 
steps towards updating their existing systems, like inclusion of dispersible tablets in ‘very 
essential list of medicines’ of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. During the pilot training on the abridged 
course of in-service IMNCI, participants from these provinces and regions were also trained to 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
42 
further enhance capacities of the service providers in their respective areas. Moreover, lessons 
learned and recommendations given in this Midterm Evaluation (MTE) will be shared with all 
the provinces and areas for replication and scale up, through National dissemination of MTE 
report, followed by federal platforms of National RMNCAH TWG. 
4.2 Findings against OECD/DAC Criteria 
In line with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)/ 
Development Assistance Committee (DAC) criteria, this evaluation assessed the findings 
against relevance, effectiveness, efficiency, sustainability and cross-cutting areas of equity and 
gender equality. A set of evaluation questions (EQs) were proposed in the TORs as per 
OECD/DAC criteria, against which, the findings of the evaluation report have been presented in 
the following section. 
4.2.1 Relevance 
Relevance has been assessed to determine the extent to which the project suited to the 
priorities and policies of the target group, recipient and donor.  
 
Finding: There is high relevance of the project as Pneumonia and Diarrhea contribute 
extensively to childhood deaths and morbidity in Pakistan. 
Pakistan has one of the highest infant mortality rates, with 62 deaths per 1,000 live births, 
though declined over a period of time from 86 to 62 deaths per 1,000 live births (PDHS 2013; 
PDHS 2018). Keeping these above-mentioned statistics in view, Pakistan lags behind in 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by the United Nations in 2015, to end 
preventable deaths of newborn and under-5 children by 2030. Similar is the case with GAPPD 
targets and timelines pledged by Pakistan. Among all the ailments, Diarrhea and Pneumonia are 
the prime causes of child mortality in Pakistan. Contribution of these two diseases to under-five 
(U5) child deaths has remained stubbornly high. In total, Diarrhea, Pneumonia, and malaria 
collectively contribute to around half of all child deaths each year in Pakistan (Bhutta et al., 
2013).  
The project was implemented to accelerate these efforts, in close coordination with the 
Government and relevant stakeholders to ensure sustainable improvements. The project had an 
overarching goal to ensure that relevant national policies are in place, understood, and adhered 
for prevention, promotion and treatment of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. The project also 
focused on incorporating Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment commodities into essential 
medicines lists and essential health service delivery packages. Based on key recommendations 
of landscape analysis and feasibility studies, the project has advocated for increased resource 
allocation for updated commodities and has catalysed the initial stages of the commodities 
procurement process with government authorities and pharmaceutical manufacturers. 
Finding: There is empirical evidence supporting the use of updated commodities for 
management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea at health facilities and in the 
communities.  
Pneumonia and Diarrhea are fatal childhood illnesses requiring an integrated management 
approach. WHO and UNICEF initiated and conceptualized a cohesive approach for tackling 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea, resulting in launch of Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea 
in April 2013 (Qazi et al, 2015). GAPPD as a framework which emphasized on integrated 
approach to protect, prevent and treat both the diseases (WHO & UNICEF, 2013), 
EQ: How relevant and meaningful are the project objectives and activities in 
addressing the needs and priorities of the marginalized and vulnerable children in the 
project areas? 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
43 
recommended the use of essential commodities including Dispersible Tablets of Amoxicillin & 
Zinc DT, Low Osmolarity ORS, ARI Timers, Pulse Oximeters and Oxygen.  
To improve Pneumonia and Diarrhea management and services in Pakistan, UNICEF in 
alignment with GAPPD introduced these updated commodities through the project at 
appropriate levels of service delivery. UNICEF to advocate the use of and their inclusion in 
essential medicine list of the Government established the benefit and impact of these 
commodities on child survival. There is strong evidence that supports the use of these 
commodities for an improved management of both the childhood diseases, particularly the 
engagement of community level health workers for treatment of Diarrhea and Pneumonia, in 
terms of overcoming major barrier to access to health services (UNICEF, 2006). 
Zinc plays a critical role in overall health and development of infants and young children, 
but among children of under developed and developing countries, its deficiencies are wide 
spread. During Diarrheal episodes zinc further depletes therefore, replacing this important 
micronutrient is essential for child recovery. WHO and UNICEF recommend a daily dosage of 
20 mg of zinc supplements for 10 days for children suffering with Diarrhea and 10 mg for 
infants under six months (Bhutta et al, 2000). Similarly, WHO recommends a 250 mg 
amoxicillin DT, to be taken twice daily for 3-5 days for treating Pneumonia. Due to better 
results, UNICEF has been promoting DTs as they are more efficient than syrups. There are 
various characteristics of a dispersible tablet and suspension/syrup, which make them different 
in their usability. Their preparation, plasma concentration, dosage, palatability, packaging, 
storage, handling, logistics, cost etc. vary to a great degree. Suspension/ syrup is prepared in the 
ratio 20 mg/5 ml with prescribed amount of water to be placed in the suspension bottle, whereas 
dispersible tablet is to be dispersed in a small amount (5 to 10ml) of liquid; clean water or breast 
milk. Preparation of both commodities is also different as less water is required for DTs 
compared to suspension, since it is prepared per dose. Nonetheless, uniformity of content is not 
guaranteed in both forms. Use of clean and appropriate container to disperse the tablet is 
required. The liquid can be softly stirred to aid dispersion before swallowing. Dispersible tablets 
are easy to dispense, require minimal manipulation prior to use, which minimizes the risk of 
errors. Accuracy of dosage varies with Suspension/ Syrup. Dosing of liquids can be uncertain 
due to inaccuracy of spoon measurement/size. On the contrary dispersible tablet’s dosage is 
more accurate as each dose requires the complete intake of one or half tablet. Therefore, dosing 
errors can be better avoided with dispersible tablets. Palatability of both commodities depended 
upon the formulation. Formulations can be composed according to the taste requirements. Taste 
masking has recently been adopted for dispersible tablets. Mostly suspension is packaged in 30 
or 60 ml glass/ceramic bottle. On the other hand, dispersible tablets are usually packed in 
blisters (aluminium /PVC) or strips (aluminium), which are lighter in weight and packing is 
prone to breakage unlike suspension bottles. Manufacturer guarantees the stability of the 
dispersible tablet in this primary packaging, as they are less physical resistance than regular 
tablets, and more sensitive to moisture and humidity. Hence dispersible tablets have to be 
unpacked right before consumption because of its physical characteristics. Suspension form can 
be stored at room temperature but once reconstituted requires refrigeration at 2-8 °C for not 
more than 14 days while dispersible tablets are stored at room temperature, without any need for 
refrigeration, including lesser storage space. Transportation of dispersible tablets is more 
convenient due to its weight, easier and cheaper because of smaller volume compared to bottles 
of Suspension/ Syrup. Based on WHO price lists, dispersible tablets are more cost saving 
compared to suspensions i.e. dispersible tablet is $ 0.22 and suspension is vs. $ 0.8 (WHO 
2010b). 
WHO and UNICEF in 2004, jointly recommended zinc treatment for 10–14 days, in 
addition to low-osmolarity ORS, as an adjunct therapy that reduces the duration and severity of 
a Diarrhea episode and the likelihood of subsequent infections in the two to three months 
following treatment. The same is evident from PDHS 2017-18, where findings revealed that 
zinc was given to 13% of children under 5 years for treatment of diarrhea. However, some 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
44 
provincial and urban/rural disparities were also observed regarding zinc for treatment of 
diarrhea, for instance 15.4% children were given zinc in Sindh (10% in urban and 22.1% in 
rural) and 13% children in Punjab (15.9% in urban and 11.7% in rural).  UNICEF and WHO 
recommends low-osmolarity ORS for treatment of Diarrhea, as the earlier composition of ORS 
does not reduce stool output or duration of Diarrhea. The reduced osmolarity of ORS solution is 
to avoid possible adverse effects of hyper-tonicity on net fluid absorption. This was done by 
reducing the solution's glucose and salt (NaCl) concentrations (WHO, 2002). 
Pulse Oximeter is a small device that stands as the standard for detection of hypoxemia in 
children at healthcare facilities, and in guiding whether children need oxygen support or not. 
However, the fragility and replacement of the probe is another determining factor. The delicate 
probes need to be replaced every year and sometimes, even before due to their easily 
damageable nature (Stop Pneumonia, 2016). On the contrary dispersible tablet’s dosage is more 
accurate as each dose requires the complete intake of one or half tablet. Therefore, dosing errors 
can be better avoided with dispersible tablets. Hence UNICEF and WHO developed ARI Timer 
in 1990 to support health workers in determining how long they need to count a child’s breath. 
These updated commodities and equipment have aided the healthcare providers and community 
health workers in timely and accurate diagnosis, and early referral of childhood Pneumonia. 
Finding: The revised commodities are acceptable by both the care in public facilities and the 
community members for management of childhood Pneumonia & Diarrhea. 
This finding is a discourse on the major overarching themes that emerged from the 
interviews and focus group discussions among relevant stakeholders at Provincial and District 
levels. It mainly highlights the availability and acceptance of new commodities along with 
prescribing behavior of healthcare providers at public sector health facilities for the 
management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. 
Availability/functionality of commodities at public health facilities – Pulse Oximeter and 
Oxygen Therapy used in treatment of Pneumonia were present and used in majority of the 
health facilities. Oxygen cylinders and flow meters were found to be available at nearly all 
selected facilities of Punjab and Sindh. There were respondents from selected facilities in 
districts including Dadu, Ghotki, Karachi West, Khairpur and Thatta that reported neglect and 
disinterest on the part of health authorities when it came to availability of equipment. Facility 
in-charges in almost all facilities of Sindh and Punjab, seemed to be convinced about the 
benefits of using Pulse oximeters and Oxygen therapy to help treat Pneumonia. Facility in-
charge from Sindh reported, “Oxygen plays an important role to save human lives particularly 
in severe condition of Pneumonia. Pulse Oximeter helps guide whether the child needs 
oxygen or not.”  
New forms of medication – Low osmolarity ORS, was available in most of the health 
facilities (80 percent) in implementing districts of Sindh and Punjab, with the in-charges being 
well aware of its benefits in comparison to the regular. Facilities In-charges in most instances 
had sound knowledge on how to administer L-ORS along with the added benefits of decrease in 
Diarrheal episodes. However, shortages of L-ORS at selected facilities in Muzaffargarh, Thatta 
and Karachi West were reported at the time of evaluation. 
The facility in-charges in both Punjab and Sindh discussed DTs, in terms of their 
availability, acceptability and practicality as a medicine in reference to syrup. Dispersible 
Tablets have gained popularity in target districts especially in Sindh.  Zinc Dispersible Tablets 
were present in majority of the facilities in Sindh and Punjab, and facility in-charges were aware 
of their benefits especially in terms of cost effectiveness and easy administration when 
compared to syrups. Facility in-charge from Sindh claimed about the benefits of DTs as 
compared to syrup, “DTs are more effective than syrup, exact dosage is administered through 
them which is essential for recovery.” 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
45 
Despite their benefits, majority of facility in-charges assumed that DTs were not available 
outside of public health sector facilities. Dispersible Tablets gathered varying views from the 
facility in-charges on its acceptability in the communities. Facility in-charges in both Sindh and 
Punjab stated that with proper counselling, a large number of caregivers have started using DTs, 
especially Zinc DT. Facility in-charges also assumed that DTs, specifically Amoxicillin DT has 
yet to win over complete community support over syrups. Without involving the Lady Health 
Workers and private health care providers its acceptance in communities is difficult. A facility 
in-charge from Sindh shared, “Community’s perception about DTs can be improved by 
counselling. Lady Health Workers can play a critical role…” 
Perceptions of Lady Health Workers on updated commodities – Lady Health Workers in 
the target districts of Sindh and Punjab had a certain level of awareness about the benefits of 
updated commodities especially of LoORS and ARI Timers but there wasn’t much awareness 
and acceptability about the benefits of DTs especially Amoxicillin. These LHWs seemed to 
have some shortage of supplies especially regarding DTs, however majority were being 
provided with LoORS and Zinc syrups. LHWs were aware of the benefits of ARI Timers in 
Acute Respiratory Tract Infections and have been provided with the same under the project. 
However, if an ARI Timer goes non-functional, LHWs showed their concern that it took up to 
six months before a new one was provided to them. 
Perceptions of caregivers on updated commodities – Majority of parents/caregivers 
seemed to be aware of the benefits of LoORS, Amoxicillin and Zinc syrups, however they were 
mixed views about the presence of DTs for treating these illnesses. A few of them, who had 
access to dispersible tablets, were not clear on how to administer DTs accurately and therefore 
perceived them as a substance hard to swallow. Some of the caregivers from Karachi (Malir) 
viewed DTs as, “…before we were provided with syrup which was easy to use and not difficult 
to swallow… Tablets now given are hard to swallow.” 
Perceptions of paediatricians at federal and provincial levels – Perspective of the senior 
paediatricians at tertiary level health care facilities mentioned Diarrhea and Pneumonia as the 
most common diseases in their catchment areas. There was a general environment of awareness 
and acceptability of the new commodities introduced for treating these illnesses. Dispersible 
Tablets and Low Osmolarity ORS were not available and therefore not being prescribed for 
treating Diarrhea and Pneumonia at provincial level facilities.  
Perceptions of GPs and Medical Store Keeper on updated commodities – There were 
mixed responses about the awareness of Dispersible Tablets and LoORS among General 
Practitioners and Pharmacy In-charges in treating Diarrhea and Pneumonia. Some GPs were 
aware of these modes of treatment. This awareness was relatively lower in Punjab. Among 
GPs, who were aware of low osmolarity ORS, some considered it better than the regular one, 
while others considered the opposite. Generally, GPs were unsure about its benefits. 
Similarly, most GPs were unaware of Dispersible Tablets (DTs) and amongst the few who 
were aware; they were concerned about their community acceptance. A GP from Punjab 
revealed, “oral Zinc has very important role in treatment…however I have never heard about 
Zinc DTs before.” Another GP from Sindh said, “…have heard of Zinc DTs for the first time. I 
think private sector should be involved in order to raise awareness.” Among the GPs who 
were aware about Zinc DT, some were doubtful of its practicality. A GP from Sindh justified 
syrup’s preference in these words, “Dispersible tablets dissolve in water, because the water is 
contaminated so syrup is better than dispersible tablets.” Majority of the Pharmacy in-charges 
interviewed were aware of the benefits of Dispersible Tablets in the treatment of 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea. However, the most commonly prescribed antibiotics for the 
treatment of respiratory tract infection and Diarrhea were Amoxicillin and Zinc in syrup 
forms. According to these Pharmacy in-charges, the current market for DTs is not very 
developed and there is negligible demand of DTs from the private sector and caregivers. 
Pharmacy In-charges from Tharparkar and Jacobabad commented, “There is no market for 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
46 
DTs. Private healthcare providers does not prescribe DTs; hence the DTs are not available in 
the market.”  
    The main suggestion to promote DTs was to create and increase demand through 
prescription from medical practitioners. Creating awareness about DTs in order to promote 
them was quite important according to pharmacy in-charges. They believed that medical 
representatives and doctors had a role to play in this. A pharmacy in-charge from 
Punjab emphasized this need; “… people should also have some awareness about usage 
and usefulness of such medicine...medical reps should suggest pharmaceutical 
companies to make such medicine in DTs given their usefulness in treatment of 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea.” Such awareness would also be beneficial for over the counter 
sales. A pharmacy in-charge from Punjab assumed that over counter sale of DTs would rise, if 
their prescriptions increase. 
Finding: In remote areas of Pakistan, Lady Health Workers play an important role in 
management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and are trusted, valued and carry influence on 
healthcare seeking behaviours. 
Most of Facility In-charges in implementing districts of Punjab and Sindh agreed on the 
role and responsibilities of Lady Health Workers. They seemed satisfied with their performance, 
acknowledged their role in raising awareness and treating diseases as well as their contribution 
to the society. LHWs provide indispensable services to the country’s poor and marginalized, 
particularly in the rural and remotes parts of the country. Their role was defined to be crucial in 
early diagnosis, initial management and referral of cases for Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Due to 
their door-to-door services, LHWs role was valued and believed to be critical in reducing the 
rate of mortality and morbidity caused due to childhood illnesses.  
Provincial and district coordinators in Punjab and Sindh involved in monitoring LHWs 
performance seemed satisfied and acknowledged their role in raising awareness about illnesses 
and improved hygiene along with treating diseases. They were viewed as first point of contact 
between the community and healthcare system and agents of rural change. A district coordinator 
from Dadu highlighted their role as “. LHWs are important workers in the community. They 
can reach and approach every corner of catchment area which are inaccessible for others.”  
Lady Health Workers enjoyed a good rapport with their respective caregivers. Caregivers 
were of the view that these Lady Health Workers bring about community participation through 
awareness creation, change of attitudes, and mobilization of support. They were seen to be 
geographically closer and more readily available than health care facilities. Caregivers from 
Karachi (Malir) district of Sindh were of the view, “…. Our LHWs provide care without 
cultural and linguistic barriers. Lady health workers are very polite. They have helped 
increase awareness for improved sanitation and hygiene.” 
 LHWs contribution in preventing and treating ARI and Diarrheal illnesses was especially 
important in terms of awareness creation and timely management. Mothers from Jacobabad 
district of Sindh highlighted their role, and stated that “LHWs visit our house and provide 
awareness about benefits of ORS and Zinc syrup in case of Diarrheal illnesses.’ 
Finding: Project objectives are highly consistent with Pakistan’s national vision and priorities 
for child health. 
This finding highlights the policies and guidelines relevant to child health and how 
consistent are the project objectives with them according to the policy makers. There was an 
EQ: To what extent the objectives of the project are consistent with the existing 
national/provincial policies and guidelines in line with global recommendations (WHO/ 
GAPPD) for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia among under-five children in 
Pakistan and are sustainable? 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
47 
agreement among the respondents at policy level that project objectives are highly consistent 
with Pakistan’s National Health Vision (2016-2025) and priorities for child health. Federal and 
provincial policy makers and planners categorically mentioned that national/provincial/ 
policies/strategies and guidelines incorporated the global recommendations for Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea. Most of them believe that community case management for Pneumonia and Diarrhea 
is updated according to the global recommendations of WHO and GAPPD. Global Action Plan 
for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD) was supported by WHO and UNICEF to help decrease 
in the rising mortality rates of children under 5 suffering from Diarrhea and Pneumonia.  
Policy makers at MoNHSR&C and provincial Health Departments shared many details 
about how and where policy changes have been incorporated to improve the treatment services 
of these illnesses. This primary focus is to attain Sustainable Development Goals and fulfil its 
other global health responsibilities. SDG 3 ensures healthy lives and promotes wellbeing for all 
at all ages. By 2030, end preventable deaths of new-borns and children under 5 years of age, 
with all countries aiming to reduce neonatal mortality to at least as low as 12 per 1000 live 
births and under-5 mortality to at least as low as 25 per 1000 live births. It was also revealed 
that Pneumonia and Diarrhea has been included into the 12th 5-year plan from 2019-2023. A 
respondent shared that in accordance with Pakistan’s National Health Vision, a 10-priority 
interventions document for RMNCAH was developed and translated into strategic action plans, 
keeping Pneumonia and Diarrhea in consideration. The ideology of National Health Vision 
2016-2025 was to improve the health of all individuals, predominantly women and children 
through universal access to affordable quality essential health services, delivered through 
resilient and responsive health system. Officials from both provinces said that this project aligns 
with their provincial health sector strategies. The Government of Punjab, taking forward the 
intent of the newly elected political leadership to reform and restructure Punjab Health Sector 
towards beer performance, has pursued the development of ten year Punjab Health Sector 
Strategy 2019-28. The defined priories of the new leadership in the health sector include patient 
safety and quality of care, infection control, hospital waste management, environmental/one 
health, Health financing & public private partnership in the backdrop of three paradigms - 
biomedical, socio-environmental and lifestyle and behavioural contexts. Thematic strategic area 
of Punjab Health Sector Strategy 2019-28, no. 1 and no. 5 are relevant to the mid-term 
evaluation of this project. 1. Maternal and Child Health (MNCH) (to ensure timely free access 
to a quality MNCH services irrespective of ability to-pay, to all the people in Punjab; to 
institutionalise quality of care in MNCH services delivery system). 2. Health Management 
Information System (to enhance scope and contents of health data systems for policy and 
planning). The strategic framework for Sindh Health Sector Strategy 2012-2020 shall serve as 
an overarching umbrella to guide the operational plans of medium and long-term programmes 
and projects. It also provides estimates of resource envelopes, for the total budgetary outlays as 
well as costs of specific strategies requiring assistance. The key purpose of developing the 
strategic framework is to identify as to what is required for health systems strengthening in 
Sindh and to define a set of sub strategies for the major building blocks of the HSS including: 
service delivery; human resources; health management information; medical products, vaccines 
and technologies; financing; and leadership /governance/stewardship.  
A provincial respondent elaborated that, 
“In 2015 Global Financing Facility (GFF) established a Trust to fund 30 high priority 
districts and to support their unmet needs to achieve the SDG agenda. Further Neo-natal Units 
have also been established in the high priority Districts of Pakistan.” 
It was also mentioned that national and provincial EMLs have been updated with the new 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities in accordance with GAPPD. However, there is no pool 
procurement at national level, therefore procurement of drugs is managed at Provincial levels. 
There have been ongoing efforts for streamlining the LMIS in PHC facilities including the 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities.  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
48 
Support of development partners including WHO, UNFPA and UNICEF, to ministry of 
health and provincial department of health was appreciated by the policy makers. Technical as 
well as financial support of these international donors was acknowledged. A respondent stated, 
“UN looks at health initiatives at global level, regional level and then facilitate to 
translate that at country level. Pneumonia & Diarrhea is included in this process.” 
 
Finding: Introduction of new commodities and management guidelines has contributed in 
improved management of P&D cases 
The officials acknowledged the development of a separate module in IMNCI guidelines 
dedicated to Pneumonia and Diarrhea along with the introduction of new commodities for the 
management of these childhood illnesses. It was generally believed that these interventions 
contributed in improving Pneumonia and Diarrhea case management to a great extent, however 
some challenges were also spelled out.  
The availability and acceptability of the new commodities is not widespread which 
impacts the management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea cases. However, the awareness of DTs 
was prevalent which shows improvement since the baseline was conducted. DTs are available at 
facility levels in both provinces and are well received by the community they cater to. However, 
the most GPs said that they don’t prescribe them and majority pharmacy in-charges also said 
that they don’t keep DTs due to low demand. There low demand and supply is like a vicious 
circle. A paediatrician was of the view that, 
“There is a dire need to convince health care professionals to use DT and to promote their 
acceptability, they should be prescribed at tertiary level which in turn will set a precedent for the 
other levels.” 
Acceptability of Low Osmolarity ORS was relatively more than the DTs. In both 
provinces and districts, majority of the respondents were aware that it is more effective in 
treating Diarrhea than regular ORS. Community was aware of its benefit to some extent. There 
was no denying the usefulness of ARI timers and pulse oximeters in timely diagnosing 
ARI/Pneumonia and Diarrhea and referral where required. Health care providers were aware 
that pulse oximeters could not be used without oxygen. Facility in-charges in Punjab 
complained of lack of requisite equipment and the need for proper maintenance. Majority of the 
LHWs claimed to have ARI timers, only a few from Sindh reported that it was out of order and 
hadn’t been replaced. Front line workers in resource limited setting acknowledge the role of 
ARI Timers, “…After the introduction of ARI Timers, my ability to diagnose and address 
pneumonia has improved.” 
Regarding the maintenance and safety of pulse oximeter, a paediatrician from Punjab expounded, 
“Pulse oximeter usage and maintenance is a little problematic as it is not sustainable. It’s 
reading are misleading if not clipped properly wrong readings. Fixed pulse oximeters break. 
While portable ones get misplaced and lost.” 
Majority of government officials responded in affirmative when asked whether treatment 
protocols including EML, IMNCI, MSDP and Procurement lists for Pneumonia and Diarrhea 
have been updated. UNICEF’s and WHO’s support in this context was highlighted time and 
again. A respondent expressed his gratitude while saying,  
“Donors are supporting us with Diarrhea Kits, ARI Kits… all commodities are also made 
available by WHO.” 
Various respondents, also highlighted the development of DHIS2 and how it would 
facilitate the management of Pneumonia and diarrhea. A respondent stated with regard to 
DHIS2, 
EQ: Are the strategies or approaches appropriate and adequate to achieve results? 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
49 
“This project will impact 27 million beneficiaries (Women & Children) from being 
affected with Pneumonia and Diarrhea morbidity & mortality.” 
4.2.2 Effectiveness 
Effectiveness has been assessed to determine the extent to which the project was able to 
attain its objectives. 
 
Finding: The project was able to update national and provincial policies and guidelines in 
line with GAPPD recommendations. 
The project is implemented with a GAPPD approach. Project contributes to increase child 
survival in Pakistan, particularly by strengthening policy solutions for better management of 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Over a period of two years the project has been able to update 
national and provincial policies and guidelines in line with GAPPD recommendations. 
Revision of IMNCI Guidelines – UNICEF, has successfully provided technical 
assistance to draft and endorse the revised community IMNCI training manuals on child 
survival from the Technical Working Groups and Government. Policymakers and 
professionals have concurred with the in-service IMNCI training manuals, which have been 
endorsed by the government. UNICEF, to help draft and endorse the pre-service and 
community IMNCI components by the WHO/Eastern Mediterranean Regional Office 
(EMRO) team, provided technical assistance. UNICEF successfully carried out a series of 
comprehensive consultative process with the government officials, key stakeholders and 
development partners to help draft the IMNCI modules, which are currently under review. 
Health managers from both Sindh and Punjab informed about the success of IMNCI 
trainings being carried out in health facilities. A health manager from Sindh reported, “We 
have over 300 Basic Health Units in which staff is receiving trainings on IMNCI/WHO 
guidelines. A Child Survival Group member from Sindh, commented about the Revised 
IMNCI trainings, “…these trainings highlight the importance of usage of Amoxicillin 
DT, Zinc DT and L-ORS in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea.” 
Procurement of quality assured commodities for Pneumonia and Diarrhea in selected 
provinces - According to District managers in Punjab and Sindh, procurement of medicines at 
the district level is being carried out through a central rate contract list, which is awarded at the 
provincial levels by the health departments. UNICEF continues the procurement of quality 
assured commodities offshore for Pneumonia and Diarrhea till end of the year, 2019. Advocacy 
with the government for adequate budgetary allocation to help ensure availability of these 
commodities at Public health facilities beyond the scope of project is being carried out. 
Districts health Information System – Keeping in view, the role of Management 
Information system in combating mortality and morbidity due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea, 
UNICEF, provided technical assistance to Department of Health for updating of DHIS 
software and tools, and its planned linkages with LMIS. A series of consultative meetings 
of the CSW and TWG at national and provincial levels were conducted to build 
consensus on strengthening the logistics system with updated EMLs, MSDP and 
procurement lists. A digital logistic management information system (LMIS) 
software, which is linked with district health information system (DHIS), is being 
developed. KII’s were conducted with DHIS focal person of Sindh and Punjab. DHIS 
focal persons in Sindh and Punjab informed, “Health Information System has been 
upgraded in the province with technical support of partners, including UNICEF”  
EQ: To what extent the project has achieved its objectives/ outcomes and what were the 
major factors influencing the achievement or non-achievement of the objectives/ 
t
?
Midterm Evaluation Report 
50 
UNICEF, helped in the printing and dissemination of the reporting tools in the 
updated DHIS with inclusion of P&D indicators. Furthermore, it was told that master 
trainers were trained which would train medics and paramedics on the use of these tools.  
Finding: The project managed to achieve policy level planned milestones, however 
implementation of these policies at district and community level need to be strengthened.  
In the annual progress report of Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project, UNICEF has outlined 
four outcomes that have to be achieved by the end of this project. First outcome being aimed is 
the Policy Change by updating existing national/provincial policies and guidelines in line with 
global recommendations WHO and GAPPD for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia 
among under five children in Pakistan by the end of 2019. Second outcome is that of Policy 
Translation through transformation of revised and updated Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment 
guidelines into relevant action plans by all provincial/areas health departments in Pakistan by 
the end of 2019. Then to achieve Policy Implementation, availability of essential commodities 
(Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, co-packaged ORS and Zinc, Oxygen, ARI Timers and Pulse 
Oximeters) should be ensured for treatment of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Pakistan, 
by the end of 2019. Last but not the least, Knowledge Management through translation of 
lessons learned from this investment to other settings/broader geographical scopes within 
Pakistan has to be conducted. 
Time and again policy makers emphasized the incorporation of changes in national and 
provincial guidelines in accordance global recommendations. Updated EMLs, MSDPs, & 
procurement lists were also mentioned by most of the relevant stakeholders. It was revealed that 
provincial EMLs and procurement lists have been updated to include the new commodities and 
devices. In Punjab, MSDPs have also been updated, while in Sindh the MSDPs are still under 
revision. The procurement lists in Sindh have included the DTs whereas these lists in Punjab 
don’t have them yet.  
Despite all these policy changes, many improvements need to be made at district and 
community levels. Facility in-charges did complain of low supply and stock-outs of 
commodities, but at the same time there were participants who were satisfied with their stocks 
and also the DHIS reporting mechanism. A respondent mentioned,  
“Medicine supply is always sent according to our demand but in case of stock out we 
share report with DHIS. All medicines are supplied in time to avoid any stock out.” 
Regarding maintenance of adequate stock, a facility in-charge stated,  
“Staff is not trained on forecasting and quantification of medicine and supplies. Proper 
training should be arranged for health facility staff.” 
Nonetheless, the LHWs’ capacity building is of immense significance to this project as 
they are the actual contact persons and are aware of the ground realities of the field. All 
stakeholders were cognizant of their importance and contribution to the healthcare system. 
A provincial candidate mentioned, 
“Availability and acceptability of DTs in the community can only be done by capacity 
building at the grass root level i.e. training LHWs.” 
Mothers expressed their heartfelt gratitude to these community workers. A mother 
exclaimed,  
“She is just like a sister, very helpful and polite and is very caring and considerate 
especially towards our children.” 
EQ: To what extent the implementation of the project approaches worked as intended, 
particularly after the baseline in 2016 and subsequent adjustments? 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
51 
However, mothers weren’t much aware of DTs or low osmolarity ORS. They knew that 
LHWs provided them with ORS yet, had limited understanding whether they were provided 
with low or regular ORS. There were mixed views prevalent regarding availability of new 
commodities among the LHWs. Some groups were satisfied and believed that supply was 
adequate while others were not. Nonetheless all LHWs were unanimous that they were 
overburdened with other campaigns like polio. They admitted that regularization had made a 
positive impact on their performance. They also agreed that there is a dire need of trainings and 
refresher training, especially how to use ARI timers in treating Pneumonia.  
Finding: Effective coordination mechanisms between federal and provincial levels have been 
established in the form of TWGs and CSGs. 
Coordination as well as technical support from TWG and child survival groups were 
applauded by the respondents as these platforms provided opportunities to discuss challenges, 
share best practices and decision making for key actions. It was revealed that National 
RMNCAH TWG is a platform for policy dialogue and technical support for child survival 
activities and is a part RMNCAH&N at federal level. Policy makers agreed that meetings 
organized by CSG are of immense significance in uniting all relevant stakeholders on a single 
platform and discussing management of childhood illnesses. Federal and provincial level 
participants were all unanimous that the Child Survival Group should be institutionalized for a 
better standing in the health system. A respondent was of the view that CSG should be a similar 
institution as MNCH and LHW Programmes. Another participant also explained the distinction 
between the operation of CSGs in Punjab and Sindh, 
“In Punjab CSG is only child focused, whereas in Sindh it is MNCH based.” 
While discussing the achievements of CSG, a participant asserted,  
“Development of curriculum for LHWs, managing issues of supplies, identification of 
training gaps are all examples of practical challenges solved by the CSG.” 
Institutionalization of CSG is important in order to have a custodian who takes 
responsibility of the recommendations made by this group. During the data collection it was 
also observed that none of the respondents at policy level, even CSG members, were willing to 
take ownership of the group’s actions.   
As already mentioned in the baseline report, CSG recommendations need to be made 
mandatory and binding in order to value and to acknowledge their authority.  
Finding: The project had limited scope and role in creating awareness among communities for 
social and behavioural change. However, LHWs were engaged over project timeline for 
raising awareness on exclusive breast-feeding, hand washing and immunisation.  
UNICEF, in partnership with BMGF, aims to improve child survival in Pakistan. 
UNICEF’s project “Accelerating Policy Change, Translation and Implementation for 
Pneumonia and Diarrhoea Commodities in Pakistan” focus on reducing under five infant deaths 
related to these illnesses. In order to raise positive awareness about the use of updated 
commodities, and transmit messages that highlight the benefit, job aids comprising of flip 
charts, standees, table flyers, patient counselling cards and posters were developed, printed and 
distributed for service providers both at community and facility levels by UNICEF.  
EQ: How effectively various Federal Ministry and Provincial Health Departments and 
Programmes coordinated among each other? 
EQ: Whether the mechanisms available to create awareness among communities are 
effectively linked to the project objectives?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
52 
KII’s and Discussions carried out at different tiers at District and Provincial levels in both 
Punjab and Sindh reveal that these job aids were able to improve the knowledge of Public health 
care providers and community workers around the benefits of using revised commodities. 
However, at community levels, there has been little demand for uptake for DTs thus far. To 
Caregivers it seemed that the word “tablet” prompted the notion that tablets were hard to 
swallow by children; hence syrup was a better choice. A facility in-charge from Sindh 
mentioned, “Demand of syrup in children is comparatively more. DTs are often perceived as 
substance hard to swallow and hence not drug of choice.”  
Caregivers, had limited understanding and knowledge about the usefulness of new 
formulation of ORS in comparison to regular and were not aware whether they were provided 
with low or regular ORS in health care facilities and by LHWs. Sustained, regular health 
education efforts at community level are required to overcome knowledge and information 
barriers and increase community awareness round these updated commodities. More efforts and 
investments need to be put in place in order to expand service outreach, including through the 
training and deployment of additional lady health workers combined with the continuation and 
intensification of community mobilization activities to leverage greater results for child 
survival. 
Finding: There is evidence to support the need for structured and regular trainings on 
management of P&D to enhance proper utilization of updated commodities.  
In Sindh, total of 9,742 doctors were trained on use of updated commodities and 8,102 
were also oriented on the use of revised DHIS tools for recording and reporting of information. 
Total of 22,700 LHWs were covered in these trainings from all 29 districts, covering ~100% of 
LHWs strength of Sindh province. In Punjab, in addition to doctors, LHWs and LHSs, Lady 
Health Visitors were also trained on use of updated commodities and MIS. Most participants 
agreed and were aware that IMNCI guidelines have been updated but there were mixed opinion 
on the adequacy of the trainings conducted for it. A federal participant shared, 
“There has been some orientation on EML, MSDP and IMNCI guidelines.” 
The in-service IMNCI six-day abridged course was perceived as a positive step by the 
policy makers.  
“The IMNCI guidelines were updated last year, finalized and approved by MOH.  The 
IMNCI course has now been reduced from 11 days to 6 days, which has made it more 
effective.” 
Most participants were not aware of the pre-service and community IMNCI components 
which have also been drafted and endorsed by the WHO and awaiting finalization.  
Nearly half of Medical Officers in the selected facilities had successfully received 
trainings in ARI, while only twenty percent of them confirmed trainings on IMNCI and 
breastfeeding. Around fifty percent of Women Medical Officers in the selected facilities had 
received trainings on ARI and micronutrient deficiency while a small percentage (25 percent) 
reported to have received trainings on IMCI. Less than fifteen percent of health technicians in 
the selected facilities had been trained on IMCI at the time of evaluation. Majority of the 
stakeholders at the district and community levels complained of lack of trainings and refresher 
trainings. At the same time, they also showed willingness to participate and keenness to learn 
from these trainings. GPs didn’t undermine their credibility as medical specialists but wanted 
their knowledge to be updated through trainings. Being from the private sector, most GPs felt 
being left out. Thus they wanted to be involved in the training provided by donors or/and the 
EQ: Whether the healthcare provider and community health workers have the required 
knowledge and skills to proper utilization of supplies as per standards and use of 
reporting tools?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
53 
government. LHWs as mentioned in the other sections couldn’t emphasize enough the need for 
their trainings and refreshers. This was also endorsed by district officers as one explained,  
“They are not specialists therefore, they required to improve their health services at all the 
time through trainings, sessions, meetings and refreshers.” 
Not just general trainings, but training in the context of Pneumonia and Diarrhea and for 
the usage of new commodities were demanded, especially for DTs and ARI timers. A provincial 
respondent highlighted this need saying,  
“DTs are new form of medication. Until and unless, LHWs are sure about its usage and 
convinced about their benefits, how will they be able to convey their knowledge to the 
mothers?” 
Finding: Reporting tools on facility (DHIS tools) and community level data (LHW MIS tools) 
were updated with inclusion of indicators on P&D along with new commodities in line with 
GAPPD recommendations and WHO guidelines. 
 Management Information System plays a vital role in combating mortality and morbidity 
due to Pneumonia and Diarrhea. KIIs with DHIS focal persons of Sindh and Punjab were 
conducted to get an insight on the current status of DHIS. It was informed that in both provinces 
reporting tools on facility and community have been updated to reflect the new commodities in 
alignment with GAPPD recommendations and WHO guidelines. Provincial managers from both 
Sindh and Punjab, informed that the updated DHIS, includes indicators about availability of 
Zinc DT, Amoxicillin DT and L-ORS in the stock available at facility and community. 
Furthermore, Provincial manager from Sindh commented, “Stock outs of DTs and L-ORS are 
reflected in the reporting tools in the DHIS.” It was informed that by the Provincial Managers 
in both Punjab and Sindh that UNICEF, has provided technical support to develop Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea specific modules and trainings. According to them, trickle down trainings were 
conducted for reporting tools on community level data “Provincial Master trainers 
conduct/arrange the trainings at district level and trained them for further trainings. And after 
this a group of district trainers trained the Hospital Staff at Facility or Taluka level.”  
Finding: ARI Timers and Pulse Oximeter are effective in timely diagnosis and severity of 
Pneumonia in children. 
 According to World Health Organization statistics, main contributors to high infant 
mortality rates are acute respiratory tract infections and Pneumonia. In most of the developing 
countries, clinical indicators, such as compromised mental state, poor intake, cyanosis and 
respiratory rate>60, nasal flaring, and chest indrawing are used to identify the severity of 
Pneumonia (Stop Pneumonia, 2016). In children, hypoxemia and rapid respiratory rate are 
ominous signs associated with respiratory tract infections. Hypoxia can be detected easily with a 
device, Pulse Oximeter. MTE has proved the benefits of using pulse oximeter, a non-invasive, 
readily available and cost effective way to identify hypoxemia and categorize high-risk children 
with respiratory tract infections. Similarly, rapid respiratory rate can be calculated using an 
Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI) Timer. Hence UNICEF and WHO developed ARI Timer in 
1990 to support health workers in determining how long they need to count a child’s breaths. 
There was no denying on the usefulness of ARI timers and pulse oximeter in timely and 
accurate management of Pneumonia. Facility in-charges from Punjab commented on the 
EQ: Whether the monitoring and reporting mechanisms exist and effectively 
implemented for effective tracking and improvement in system?  
EQ: How effective are the ‘innovative approaches like use of ARI timers and pulse 
oximeter, what results can be achieved, are replicable within the Sindh/Punjab context?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
54 
benefits of ARI Timers and Pulse Oximeter, “ If used accurately, Pulse Oximeters are cost- 
effective and efficient devices that can help detect cases of Pneumonia”. 
Majority of the health care facilities in both Punjab and Sindh were equipped with oxygen 
and pulse oximeters.  
Majority of the LHWs in the intervention districts of Sindh and Punjab were equipped 
with ARI Timers. ARI Timers were functional and available at health houses in Jacobabad, 
Tharparkar and Bahawalnagar. Some of the LHWs reported non-functional ARI Timers and 
limitation of knowledge on their usage. LHWs from Punjab exclaimed, “ We have little 
knowledge on how to use this device accurately so it becomes quiet challenging while 
checking for signs and symptoms of Pneumonia in a sick child.” Trainings relating to accurate 
usage of ARI Timers and its benefits can help to improve knowledge, skills and performance of 
these Lady Health Workers. This in turn, will result in early and accurate management of Acute 
Respiratory Tract Infections among infants under five years of age. 
Finding:  Provision of ARI timers has empowered LHWs and improved their ability to manage 
Pneumonia.  
Female empowerment and gender equality has also been promoted through this project. 
LHS and LHWs role to provide curative Pneumonia and Diarrhea services in the community 
elevates their status as a productive member in the community. Since the project involves 
provision of commodities including gadgets like ARI timers to LHWs, the project is equipping 
the females in the community and empowering them to perform better. However, there was a 
consensus among these community workers on the lack of trainings and refresher trainings. One 
of them claimed, 
“Since we aren’t specialists, we need to be trained regularly in order to perform our 
duties.” 
ARI timer is a new piece of equipment for these community workers and they demanded 
being taught how to effectively use it. One LHW, insisted,  
“We all don’t know how to use ARI timer, so it is quite challenging to check or deal with 
a Pneumonia patient.” 
Maintenance and replacement of out of order ARI timers was another problematic area. 
An LHW from Karachi Malir explained,  
“My ARI timer is out of order and not working properly, I have asked for a new one but 
still no response.” 
LHWs agreed on the usefulness of the ARI timers and at the same time highlighted the 
need for trainings on their use and their maintenance.  
Finding: The project has contributed in building ownership of provincial governments of its 
interventions.  
The project has certainly made the DOH at provincial levels more conscious and involved 
in the management of these childhood illnesses. However, there is still room for further 
strengthening this ownership by the government. Members of CSG and TWG were extremely 
supportive and enthusiastic about improving Pneumonia and Diarrhea services, yet none seemed 
to take responsibility of the actions of these groups. The technical support provided by these 
groups was acknowledged and the need for “institutionalizing” these groups was mentioned by 
various stakeholders quite frequently. A policy maker while appreciating the role of UNICEF in 
this project expressed his concern for the project’s sustainability after UNICEF withdraws,   
EQ: To what extent the programme has been able to contribute to ownership and 
leadership of the provincial/ area DOHs?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
55 
“There should be a detailed exit strategy planned out before UNICEF withdraws 
sustaining this massive project could be a big challenge for the government.” 
Nonetheless, all policy level participants highlighted the government’s support and 
involvement in this project from decision-making and advocacy to making significant changes 
at the policy level. 
Finding: Ownership of the government is evident through inclusion of recommended 
commodities in MSDP, EML and procurement lists.  
The government revised and updated the child survival related policies and strategies in 
accordance with GAPDD and WHO recommendations. Majority of the policy level respondents 
were cognizant of these changes including the updating of IMNCI guidelines, which they agreed 
was a judicious step. Majority agreed that IMNCI trainings were taking place and some were of 
the opinion that the monitoring mechanism of these trainings should be strengthened for quality 
assurance purposes. The participants who chose to share specific insights about the updating of 
policies shared that in Punjab, DTs and Lo ORS have been included in provincial EML, 
procurement lists, and MSDP whereas in Sindh EML and MSDP have been updated, while DTs 
still need to be added in the procurement lists. This reflects the commitment of the federal and 
provincial governments in managing these childhood illnesses.  
Finding: Childhood P&D has been brought into limelight through the project interventions at 
policy and planning level. 
The project interventions have definitely put the much-needed focus on these childhood 
illnesses. Apart from changes in EML, MSDP and procurement lists, the structure of IMNCI 
trainings have been revised. Not only the training days have been reduced from eleven to six, 
but a separate module for Pneumonia and Diarrhea has been created in the IMNCI guidelines. 
However, quite a few respondents insisted that Pneumonia and Diarrhea should be incorporated 
in the medical curriculum in order to give them the attention they deserve. Majority of the 
respondents at policy level were aware of these changes and many also appreciated them as 
progressive efforts. Sustained advocacy and deliberations with the DOH at both federal and 
provincial levels has also led to the government concurrence on shifting to DHIS and 
implementation of LMIS in the province.   
Finding: There were multiple factors that influenced the project outcomes including certain 
hindering factors. 
There were numerous obstacles that affected the outcomes of the project. There were 
some barriers specific to the project while some were more general ones that are embedded in 
the overall system. 
IMNCI training component was not part of the initial design of the project however, later 
on it was added to strengthen the implementation process. Private sector engagement was and 
still remains to be a major challenge as the sector is largely unregulated while still contributing 
to more than 70% services. Many policy level respondents stated that it is imperative to involve 
the private sector, as the project cannot succeed while excluding it. Care givers/mothers’ lack of 
familiarity with the DTs and Lo ORS is also one of the limiting factors.   
At district and community levels, there are many causes for not achieving the desired 
outcomes of the project. Social issues like lack of resources, rapid inflation, non-availability of 
clean drinking water, transport and treatment expenditures etc. were frequently mentioned in 
this context by the community members. Respondents, especially LHWs, believed that 
widespread lack of education and illiteracy in the community, especially among mothers, which 
interferes with their ability to understand the root cause of these diseases, their preventive as 
EQ: What have been the major factors influencing the achievement or non-achievement 
of outcomes?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
56 
well as their treatment measures. There is a dire need for basic consciousness for incorporating 
hygiene in the daily routines. To promote the concept of hygiene and cleanliness, a participant 
suggested, “Every Friday sermon should necessarily include emphasis on cleanliness; Safayi 
nisf imaan hai.” 
Another suggestion was that public awareness on hygiene should be created by media 
campaigns, referring to pictorials distributed by UNICEF for this project. Shortage and high 
turnover of medical staff along with high burden of patients were mentioned quite recurrently at 
facility level. A respondent at RHC in Punjab described his workload of patients,  
“We get 500 patients in OPD in a single day, hence we can’t give more than 40-50 
seconds to each patient.” 
LHWs complained that they were over burdened with other campaigns like dengue and 
polio whereas their original job description is only MNCH related work. Other stakeholders also 
agreed that such engagements hindered LHWs from focusing on their primary duties.  
Finding: Project has made certain adjustments mid-way to increase effective implementation. 
A significant assignment undertaken for course correction is this midterm evaluation of 
the project. Many changes were made along the way. Supplies are now directly delivered to 
LHWs without involving the district managers. LHWs were satisfied with this mechanism as it 
ensured uninterrupted and timely supply. The DHIS2; linking of LMIS and DHIS would further 
facilitate in strengthening this project. Co-packaging of Zinc DT and Lo ORS, which was 
initially introduced, has now been discontinued due to its impracticality. However, many facility 
in-charges in Punjab claimed to still have and distribute these co-packaged commodities.  
4.2.3 Efficiency 
Finding: The project has been able to achieve its planned milestones, activities and outcomes 
within stipulated timeline ensuring efficient use of resources. 
In the annual progress report of Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project, UNICEF has outlined 
four outcomes that have to be achieved by the end of this project. First outcome, being aimed is 
the “Policy Change”. It has been achieved by updating existing national/provincial policies and 
guidelines in line with global recommendations WHO and GAPPD for management of Diarrhea 
and Pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan. There was an agreement among the 
respondents at policy level that Project objectives are highly consistent with Pakistan’s national 
vision and priorities for child health. UNICEF, role has been acknowledged for supporting 
consultations with national and provincial governments for updating and revising guidelines in 
line with GAPPD. The officials agreed that a strong coordination mechanism exists within the 
RMNCH including stakeholders from Federal & Provincial Governments, UN Agencies (WHO, 
UNICEF, UNFPA), PPA & the Private sectors. A respondent explained that, “They convene 
meetings at National level on quarterly basis.” Technical support from Groups like Technical 
working groups and Child Survival groups were mentioned. Child Survival groups are 
empowered, committed and capable of implementing the interventions. 
UNICEF has been able to translate policies through transformation of revised and 
updated Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment guidelines into relevant action plans by all 
provincial/areas health departments in Pakistan. Respondents at federal and provincial policy 
levels shared their insights on the service delivery of the public sector health facilities. There 
EQ: How well the resources, both human and financial, been managed to ensure timely, 
attainment of results?  
EQ: To what extent the programme learned and evolved over the 2 years?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
57 
was a consensus of opinion among the policy makers that national/provincial/ policies/strategies 
and guidelines incorporate the global recommendations for Pneumonia and Diarrhea.  UNICEF, 
role was applauded by majority of policymakers to help draft, endorse, print the revised IMNCI 
manuals. It was revealed by policy makers in both Punjab and Sindh that provincial EMLs and 
procurement lists have been updated to include the new commodities and devices for 
management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea. In Punjab, MSDPs have been updated to include the 
new commodities while in Sindh; the MSDPs are under revision as per GAPDD 
recommendations. 
Health Information Systems have been updated and strengthened to reflect the 
recommended commodities. A common opinion exists among the policy makers that UNICEF, 
provides support for the updating of DHIS software and tools and in the establishment of DHIS-
II and its linkages with LMIS. Last but not the least, Knowledge Management through 
translation of lessons learned from this investment to other settings/broader geographical scopes 
within Pakistan have been carried out starting from the implementation phase. Policy and 
decision makers from two other provinces (Baluchistan and KPK) are a part of Federal 
RMNCAH & N technical working group and are informed on key decisions and lessons learned 
under this project during these meetings. 
Finding: There are numerous factors that hindered the availability of recommended 
commodities for management of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea in open market. 
The market for recommended commodities for management of childhood Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea is not very developed. The most salient market challenges observed for DTs 
are around awareness and availability. General Practitioners and Pharmacy in-charges 
highlighted that there was limited awareness and availability  of DTs in the open market. 
Majority of the GPs, were not aware about the benefits of DTs and L-ORS and amongst 
those who were aware of L-ORS and DTs there is still a preference for regular ORS and 
syrups.  
A common perception among the pharmacy in- charges was lack of demand for DTs 
by the caregivers and private health care providers. The prescribing practices of the private 
health care providers were not in align with the Global Health recommendations. There is a 
lack of understanding on the benefits and usage of DTs by the consumers leading to a 
general preference for Syrups. Amoxicillin and Zinc have been introduced in syrups form 
since long. In the presence of these substitutes in the market, demand for dispersible 
formulations is not very high. Presence of a substitute affects the prescribing behavior and 
uptake of these commodities. In general, sustained demand for commodity is considered a 
potent factor influencing production decision and sustainability. Low demand decreases 
profitability and adversely affects production decision. Unless there is a sustained and 
significant demand for these commodities, even companies having the capability and capacity 
would be reluctant to take a production decision. 
Finding: The project has added value by improving management practices of healthcare 
providers, mainly outreach workers and primary level facilities. 
The project has added value by improving management practices of healthcare providers, 
mainly outreach workers and primary level facilities. There was an agreement among the 
respondents at primary level facilities that community case management for Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea is updated according to the global recommendations of WHO and GAPPD. The 
EQ: What are the implementation challenges from the perspective of both right holders 
and duty bearers especially for the under- five marginalized children of communities?  
EQ: What is the value added in terms of improved delivery of services for Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
58 
officials acknowledged the development of a separate module in IMNCI guidelines dedicated to 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea along with the introduction of new commodities for the management 
of these childhood illnesses. It was generally believed that these interventions contributed in 
improving Pneumonia and Diarrhea case management to a great extent. During key informant 
interviews, facility in-charges stated,  
“…lot of medicines are only available in adult strength; administration of accurate dosage 
for children suffering from pneumonia and diarrhea is critical.” 
“DT’s are more effective than syrups, exact dosage is administered through them.” 
During FGDs with LHWs, they explained, “DT’s are considered the most ideal since they 
are manufactured in solid state and a single dose is turned into liquid at point of administration.” 
Pulse Oximeter, and Oxygen therapy introduced in primary health facilities by UNICEF, 
as discussed in detail in relevance section have helped to detect hypoxemia a fatal complication 
of Pneumonia early and accurately long with oxygen availability have helped decrease 
complications. Female empowerment and gender equality has also been promoted through this 
project. The project involves provision of commodities including gadgets like ARI timers to 
LHWs, the project is equipping the females in the community and empowering them to perform 
better. 
 
 
Finding: Majority of the public health facilities had adequate supply of P&D recommended 
commodities but prescription behavior of care providers need improvement.  
Management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children under 05 years of age was done 
through review of prescriptions of children visiting surveyed healthcare facilities. A total of 480 
prescriptions were recorded with 10 from each of 48 surveyed facilities, and 473 of which 
turned out to be containing relevant information. Out of these prescriptions, 45.7% were 
Pneumonia patients and 54.3% were suffering from Diarrhea. Among these children, 52.6% 
were boys and 47.4% were girls, with variation more pronounced among Diarrhea patients as 
54.5% male children were suffering from Diarrhea as compared to 50.5% male children 
suffering from Pneumonia. The ages of these children ranged from under one month to as high 
as 60 months. Status of the availability of updated commodities is given in the following graph. 
The availability of Amoxil DT was confirmed in 20 health facilities, Zinc DT in 33 while 
LoORS was available in 34 of all the 48 health facilities selected for evaluation. 
Figure 6: Percentage of health facilities having updated commodities 
 
Findings of the assessment revealed that Zinc DT was prescribed to 42.2% of the children 
suffering from Diarrhea (23.5% in Punjab and 48.4% in Sindh) whereas LoORS was given to 
93.8% 
83.3% 
41.7% 
68.8% 
70.8% 
75.0% 
91.7% 
41.7% 
66.7% 
75.0% 
100.0% 
80.6% 
41.7% 
69.4% 
69.4% 
Pulse Oximeter 
Oxygen 
Amoxicillin DT 
Zinc DT 
LoORS 
Total 
Punjab 
Sindh 
EQ: Whether the availability of P&D supplies is adequate, timely and are prescribed?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
59 
66.9% (100.0% in Punjab and 54.5% in Sindh). Use of Amoxicillin DT was reported in 28.4% 
of the Pneumonia prescriptions and in Punjab, only 3.8% of the prescriptions showed 
Amoxicillin DT while the remaining used syrup formulation. Availability of the DTs was 
mainly dependent on UNICEF supplies, which was not catering to 100% of the caseload. 
Secondly, the provincial governments were procuring syrups, therefore, the health facilities 
where DT was not available, syrups were being prescribed. Overall, Amoxicillin Syrup was 
available at 69.4% of health facilities of Sindh and 75.0% of health facilities of Punjab whereas 
Zinc Syrup was available at 83.3% facilities of Punjab and 80.6% health facilities of Sindh.  
Figure 7: Percentage of Pneumonia and Diarrhea prescriptions having updated 
commodities prescribed 
 
The reason for not prescribing Zinc DT was either its unavailability at the health facility 
(27.1%) or the prescribing behaviour of the healthcare provider (72.9%). The reason for not 
prescribing Amoxicillin DT was mainly its unavailability at the health facility (75.0%) whereas 
one fourth of the healthcare providers preferred the prescription of syrup despite its availability 
at the health facilities.  
Figure 8: Underlying reasons for not prescribing updated commodities  
 
There was a stark contrast between the awareness and availability of DTs in public and 
private sector. Apart from issues of stock outs and low supply, facility in-charges and LHWs 
were aware of DTs and their benefits. On the contrary, some GPs were not even familiar with 
them, leave aside their availability. Few also said that there isn’t any demand for DTs as they 
don’t get any prescriptions with them. A GP in the focus group discussion mentioned, 
“If this type of provision is handed over to private sector, then the results will be better. 
We have heard about the DT from you for the first time. UNICEF should involve the private 
healthcare providers for the use of DT.” 
42.2% 
66.9% 
28.4% 
23.5% 
100.0% 
3.8% 
48.4% 
54.5% 
38.0% 
Prescription of Zinc DT in Childhood 
Diarrhea 
Prescription of LoORS in Childhood 
Diarrhea 
Prescription of Amoxicillin DT in 
Childhood Pneumonia 
Total 
Punjab 
Sindh 
75.0% 
25.0% 
27.1% 
72.9% 
22.2% 
77.8% 
Non-availability at the health facility 
Gaps in prescribing behaviours of service providers 
Zinc DT 
Amoxicillin DT 
LoORS 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
60 
This clearly shows that GPs felt left out of the system. They also were keen on attending 
trainings but most of them shared that they were unfortunately not provided any. A provincial 
respondent also supported this notion and asserted that, “Private sector needs to be persuaded 
and incentivized for the production of DTs commodities.” 
Finding: Childhood P&D management practices have improved through introduction of 
updated commodities. 
All stakeholders were unanimous that introduction of new commodities was a great 
initiative to improve Pneumonia and Diarrhea management. Majority believed that this project 
has put the desired national focus on these critical childhood illnesses. However, respondents at 
community level discussed many areas for improvement. 
Mothers/care givers had an obvious preference for syrup over DT. There were also 
mothers who were not familiar with DTs. On the contrary, ORS sachets were popular with the 
mothers and vouched to their efficacy in treating Diarrhea. However, most couldn’t differentiate 
between Lo-ORS and regular ORS and shared that they used whichever sachet was provided by 
the LHWs. Mothers held LHWs in high regard in relation to treating these childhood illnesses 
and believed that they played a critical role in addressing health needs of the community.  
LHWs were quite satisfied with the introduction of new commodities and their 
effectiveness in treating these diseases. Majority was also pleased with their supplies, both with 
quantity and regularity. LHWs in Punjab were quite satisfied with the new delivery system of 
supplies, which were either delivered at their health houses or at the facilities with their names. 
This supply chain didn’t find favour with a few DHOs who believed that the delivery should 
take place through them for better monitoring. LHWs wanted more training and refreshers, 
especially with regards to using ARI timers. Most of them apparently considered it useful tool 
in diagnosing Diarrhea but were not much familiar with its usage. The ones who were aware 
how to use them, complained of them being out of order and not being replaced.  
GPs were mostly indifferent towards the new commodities as they were unaware of them; 
some did not even know what DTs were. Majority was unsure about the availability of Lo ORS. 
Due to this they felt being excluded from the health system and showed keenness in trainings 
and in learning about the new commodities. Similarly, pharmacy in-charges were of the opinion 
that they did not get prescription of DTs and Lo ORS so they didn’t keep them in stock due to 
no demand. Very few facility in-charges mentioned stock-outs; majority was satisfied with the 
supplies as well as with the effectiveness of the new commodities. Most facility in-charges 
believed that with DTs, dosage is more accurate. LoORS was particularly popular with facilities 
in both provinces. Prescribing co-packaging of zinc DT and Lo ORS was still a common 
practice in Punjab. In spite of admitting the efficacy of DTs, quite a few facility in-charges 
revealed that they did not prescribe DTs as syrup was more popular with the patients. 
Prescribing DTs was just not a common practice. DTs were easier to store so they would let the 
stock be, and prescribe syrup. An interesting suggestion came from a facility in-charge in 
Punjab who opined that since DT is a new commodity and its acceptability is currently low thus,  
“It should have a price, even if Rs. 5-10 in order for the patient to value it. Free stuff has 
no value and when people are not even familiar with the usage, they just throw it away.” 
District managers could not emphasize the role of LHWs enough in managing these 
illnesses as they considered them the backbone of the community health. Although LHWs were 
quite pleased with their regularization, a few managers from Punjab mentioned that they have 
become a little relaxed and at times rather negligent of their duties due to their permanent 
employment status.  
EQ: To what extent has the project achieved its goals in enhancing the health outcomes 
especially of under five children in the catchment communities in Sindh and Punjab 
target districts?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
61 
Finding: The project had certain unexpected effects (both positive and negative) on the 
management outcomes of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea.  
During the implementation of the project, certain unexpected effects occurred. On the 
positive side, it included the revision and updating of Essential Medicines List in the province 
of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The list was updated with inclusion of dispersible tablets in this 
province, which was not part of project intervention areas but the provincial policy makers and 
planners were regularly attending the federal coordination forum of Technical Working Group. 
Similarly, the revision of DHIS tools in the target provinces of Punjab and Sindh did not stop at 
the inclusion of updated Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities but also included indicators on 
maternal health, immunization and breast-feeding practices. The only negative effect identified 
through the project was the perceptions of the mothers and caregivers developed after the 
introduction of dispersible tablets. Rural community did not realise the difference between a 
regular tablet and dispersible tablet. This led to their lack of acceptance for the use dispersible 
tablets in children. Although this effect was very rare but there is need to clearly explain the 
usage of dispersible tablets.  
4.2.4 Sustainability 
Sustainability has been assessed to measure whether the benefits of the project are likely 
to continue after donor funding has been withdrawn. 
Finding: Sustainability and replicability of the project is to be ensured through 
institutionalisation of key policies and guidelines through health systems strengthening 
approach. 
Government has the decisive role in making this project sustainable by incorporating it 
into their policy and implementing it in true letter and spirit. Government has shown their 
commitment in assuming P&D project as one of its own which is reflected through various 
measures they have taken in this regard.  
Revision of IMNCI Guidelines – IMNCI guidelines have been revised and updated 
allocating distinct training sessions on our diseases of interest i.e. Pneumonia and Diarrhea. This 
was made possible with the technical assistance from UNICEF after a series of comprehensive 
consultative meetings with all the stakeholders (Government, Technical Working Groups and 
Development Partners). In the revised version of community IMNCI training manual, not only 
P&D are given specific attention by assigning training sessions separately but also, the training 
duration of IMNCI has been made compact (shortened from eleven to six days). This will 
emphasize the importance of and help focus the healthcare providers these particular health 
problems, hence, their better management. 
The trainings on revised IMNCI manuals are being carried out successfully across Sindh 
and Punjab. 
A health manager from Sindh reported, “We have over 300 Basic Health Units in which 
staff is receiving trainings on IMNCI/WHO guidelines.”  
A Child Survival Group member from Sindh, commented about the Revised IMNCI 
trainings, “…these trainings highlight the importance of usage of Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT and 
L-ORS in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea.” 
Essential Medicine List and MSDP Updated - UNICEF assisted Federal and Provincial 
governments in Pakistan for the provision of updated six commodities for management of 
EQ: What evidences exists to see the likelihood of the project results are sustained and 
will be adopted by the Government to ensure that the ultimate goal of the programme is 
achieved?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
62 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea. In continuation of this policy, Essential Medicine List for the 
healthcare facilities was updated by the government, thereby including L-ORS and Amoxicillin, 
Zinc Dispersible Tablets in the EML. Provincial DHIS official informed, “Amoxicillin DT, 
Zinc DT and L-ORS have been made part of the Essential Medicine List.”  
In Punjab, updating of Minimum Service Delivery Package for the healthcare facilities 
has been done focusing P&D for the health and well-being of under 5 Children. Six new 
commodities introduced by UNICEF to improve Pneumonia and Diarrhea management and 
services through P&D project (Amoxicillin & Zinc DT, Lo-ORS & Zinc DT, ARI Timers, Pulse 
Oximeters and Oxygen for appropriate levels of service delivery) are now part and parcel of the 
MSDP for the healthcare facilities. Whereas in Sindh, MSDPs are still under revision/update as 
per GAPPD recommendations through the Healthcare Commission. 
UNICEF, continues the procurement of quality assured commodities for Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea till end of the year, 2019. Government has included L-ORS, Amoxicillin DTs and Zinc 
DTs for P&D in the Procurement Lists of healthcare facilities, which will ensure the availability 
of these drugs at the healthcare facilities even after the year 2019. 
According to District managers in Punjab and Sindh, procurement of medicines at the 
district level is being carried out through a central rate contract list, which is awarded at the 
provincial levels by the health departments. The revision of IMNCI guidelines, addition of DTs 
and L-ORS in EML and Procurement Lists, updating of DHIS reporting tool and inclusion of 
six commodities in MSDP have all contributed substantially in achieving a good part of the goal 
of sustainability of P&D project. These efforts on the part of Government will impact well 
beyond the achievement of project objectives as the future need assessments and performance 
analysis shall be made on the basis of these revised tools.  
The above mentioned arrangements done by Government clearly depict their intent and 
commitment to making P&D project sustainable even when UNICEF assistance is concluded. 
Finding: Challenges faced are mitigated through enhanced government ownership and 
increased focus on P&D. 
The commitment and resolve of the Government and Partner Organizations is of 
paramount importance in determining fate and shape of P&D project in future. This 
commitment in other words is formative of sustainability of this project. Government has taken 
multiple steps in making P&D project a success and also for the continuation of these activities 
as one of its own, even beyond 2019. The revision of IMNCI guidelines, addition of DTs and L-
ORS in EML and Procurement Lists, updating of DHIS reporting tool and inclusion of six 
commodities in MSDP have all contributed substantially in achieving a good part of the goal of 
sustainability of P&D project.  
All the Health Department Officials showed their zeal in the project activities and were 
fully aware of all the events being carried out in health departments in this regard. One of the 
Health Department Official told, “…These services regarding Diarrhea and Pneumonia are 
satisfactory according to our sources” 
Not only health managers displayed ownership to the project but also health facilities’ 
staff members were equally involved in its implementation and provided positive feedback; one 
of the staff member from health facility told, “…Medicine supply provided by UNICEF is very 
effective”. 
Another important factor in sustainability of this project is un-interrupted budgetary 
allocations to buy commodities for Pneumonia and Diarrhea in sufficient quantities. Currently, 
EQ: What internal/external factors and drivers contribute to or constrain the 
sustainability of the project?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
63 
there is a mixed trend in availability of these commodities across different districts of Sindh and 
Punjab; most of these commodities were available but in many facilities the situation was 
otherwise. However sustainability demands the availability as well access to these commodities 
of most of if not all of the respective patients of Pneumonia and Diarrhea being reported to the 
public sector healthcare providers (both fixed and outreach staff). One of the health facility staff 
members told, “…target is too much and medicine is very limited”. 
Trainings and refresher courses/trainings play a vital role in capacity building, developing 
ownership of the project and in morale boosting of the implementing staff. The more frequently 
these trainings and refreshers are conducted the better outcomes of the project are likely to be 
achieved. The information is continuously pouring in day by day and updating the staff 
members regularly on project objectives and their achievement modalities is crucial. The 
analysis revealed that there is dire need and strong demand of these trainings amongst the health 
facility staff members. Many staff members are still not trained on project implementation and 
many of the trained ones received it months ago and require refresher in order to perform better. 
One of the staff members explained, “…We need more trainings about medicines of 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea”. 
The achievement of objectives of controlling Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Pakistan under 
5 population is an uphill task and is a long and continuous process. Keeping this in mind we are 
rightful in saying that the current project is working good under the resolve of Government and 
is very much likely to be sustainable due to efforts of all the stakeholders involved. However, 
there are some serious challenges to be looked after carefully like budgetary allocations after the 
UNICEF assistance is concluded, trainings of the concerned staff members and equitable 
distribution of the commodities. To mitigate these challenges and cope up with them, there is 
viable mechanism in place, i.e., regular meetings of the federal and provincial coordination 
forums occur periodically and the decisions taken therein are translated into workable actions on 
regular basis. This process has been observed effectively during the course of the project and 
will be followed in future as well; many of the problems faced are already discussed and dealt 
with successfully through these meetings and same process will be carried on prospectively as 
well. 
The mid-term evaluation of the P&D project clearly indicates that its achievements 
outweigh its constraints by far, which is evidence on project being sustainable in future. 
Finding: The project envisages increased Government ownership and donor’s commitment for 
project sustainability. 
Sustainability of P&D project depends on its achievements and performance as perceived 
by the stakeholders including government, partner agencies, health facility staff and patients. 
This means that all the services are provided to end users’ and providers’ satisfaction.  
The other contributing factor is that government and organizations if manage their 
knowledge assets effectively will gain sustainable competitive advantage and this is why 
knowledge management is surety bond of sustainability in healthcare. Knowledge management 
and therefore sustainability depends upon coordination, transformation, and transfer of 
knowledge and aims to facilitating the communication of knowledge to the people that created 
it, as well as the people that need it. Sustainability can only be achieved if the good practices are 
to be simulated in the scaling up and replication of this project. The good practices in the current 
project such as the commitments, resolve and capacity of government and partner agencies to 
run the project effectively in a developing country like Pakistan with limited resources, its 
compromised performance issues (Pakistan ranked 120/190 in healthcare performance), high 
EQ: What is required to ensure prospects of sustainability of the project outcomes and 
the potential for replication or scale up of good practices and/or innovative approaches?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
64 
disease load of Pneumonia and Diarrhea as well as many other communicable and non-
communicable diseases and alarmingly high rates of morbidity and mortality in the children 
under 5 years of age. The resolve of the government and other stakeholders are evident in the 
form of updating of IMNCI guidelines, addition of DTs and L-ORS in EML and Procurement 
Lists, updating of DHIS reporting tool and inclusion of six commodities in MSDP. 
Another good practice to be replicated is the coordination amongst all the stakeholders 
and as a result of it, the evidence based decision making by CSGs whose recommendations are 
conveyed and followed till the lowest operational level effectively. There are a certain 
innovative approaches that can be integrated into the scaled up/replicated projects: community 
involvement in the project at different levels such as at sub-district, district, provincial and 
federal level. The involvement of community is aimed to develop ownership of the project in 
the local community and as an accountability measure. The representation of community and its 
mandate can be decided after rigorous thought processes in the coordination meetings.  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
65 
5. Conclusions  
Policy change is a complex and painstaking process that requires clear-cut, precise and 
well-timed interplay of a multitude of factors. In a given context, what contributed the most to 
policy change is credible evidence. Building on this principle, project on Accelerating Policy 
Change, Translation and Implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Commodities in Pakistan 
(P&D Project) developed, gathered, communicated and popularised the child survival as a 
policy agenda item on the lists of federal and provincial governments. At the time of inception, 
landscape analysis, baseline and evaluability studies were conducted to generate evidence, 
inform the project planning with ground realities and to identify drivers and barriers for policy 
making. The project achieved/completed/accomplished the causal chain of policy change, its 
translation and implementation for revised and updated commodities for management of 
childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea in Pakistan during the stipulated timeframe. The evaluation 
has also revealed the spill over effect of the project interventions leading to achievement of 
broader benefits in its streams of interventions, including the updating of DHIS tools, revision 
of IMNCI manuals and Essential Medicines Lists. Through coordination support during these 
revisions, opportunities were harnessed by the relevant stakeholders in government, within 
Unicef and other development partners to update other areas of maternal and child health. These 
amendments, like EPI indicators in DHIS, were originally beyond the scope of this project but 
were made possible through strong stakeholders engagement during policy translation 
processes. 
Policy change is unpredictable. No matter how calculated and premeditated the 
engagement and advocacy efforts are timeliness of actions is crucial to constitute an opportunity 
for change. The project has managed to achieve concrete milestones and outcomes on child 
survival during a short span of time. It was only possible because the project team availed all the 
available windows of opportunity and positioned their evidence to inform the policy change, its 
subsequent translation and implementation. Policies covering the entire continuum of care 
around childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea have been translated into actions and gained results; 
now requiring scaling up and replication to achieve child survival goals.  
The project team at all levels (M/oNHSR&C, Health Departments) critically engaged 
with policy makers so that opportunities are shaped for use of evidence in the policy making 
process. Their presence in the broader policy space and strong relationships, both in formal 
(steering committee, technical working groups, CSGs) and informal (networking) ways, resulted 
in fostering stronger association of the project with government policies and strategies on 
childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. During the evaluation, lobbying and networking of the 
project team for child survival was highly valued by the government counterparts and there was 
high buy-in of the project interventions from the federal and provincial policy makers and 
planners. Another example included the description of provincial Child Survival Group as a 
think tank – by a provincial policy maker – that has been supporting the policy makers through 
quality and relevant evidence for policy change. During the revisions and updating of 
guidelines, manuals, government yardsticks and information systems, the project established 
strong relationships to connect multiple stakeholders. This wide array of stakeholders that 
project directly engaged to achieve its planned outcomes included ministerial offices, health 
departments, their directorates, donors, development partners, district managers, health facility 
staff, professional associations, outreach staff, pharmaceutical manufacturers, regulatory bodies 
(Drugs Regulatory Authority of Pakistan and Drugs Testing Laboratory). 
The evaluation team trailed the dimensions of OECD/DAC Criteria to gauge the success 
of the project. In the following section, the policy process (policy change, policy translation, 
policy implementation and knowledge management) for each of the interventions stream is 
described along with their chemistry with project assumptions. This is followed by 
recommendations, proposed actions and theory of change for the remainder for the project life.  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
66 
At the level of policy change, the project had a clear analysis and expression of why, 
what, how and who needs to be involved and engaged to achieve policy change. Political will 
and commitment were evident from the stress drawn on childhood illnesses in Pakistan’s 
National Health Vision as well as provincial health policies and sector strategies. Willingness of 
government institutions, federal and provincial, was evident from their ownership and buy-in of 
project interventions. Decentralization of health sector has created dichotomies among federal 
level and provinces. The project attempted to bridge this gap by supporting certain platforms to 
build a shared vision. Support to provincial Health Departments was provided in 
implementation of joint accountability framework through CSG and TWG. Both the CSG in 
Punjab and TWG in Sindh had representation of all relevant stakeholders. Under policy change, 
the receptivity of policy makers and planners was demonstrated through updating of 
government documents (MSDP/EPHS, Essential Medicines Lists, Provincial Procurements 
Lists) to include the updated commodities for management of childhood Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea. 
 
Moving to the next stage of policy translation, the project first built credible evidence on 
the effectiveness of updated commodities. Healthcare providers, at both the health facilities and 
within communities, acknowledged the use of updated commodities for effective management 
of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea. Inclusion of updated commodities in key government 
documents (MSDP/EPHS, Essential medicines list, provincial procurement lists) showed 
government financial commitment, whereas, the governments are already procuring alternatives 
to updated commodities. A key intervention for policy translation was the support to federal and 
provincial governments for updating IMNCI guidelines while catering to the challenges of old 
curriculum and training duration. However, there were still gaps in allocation of resources for 
conducting the trainings across the board as the district managers explained the lack of 
resources for conducting IMNCI trainings. 
 
Under policy implementation, the evaluation revealed that the diagnosis and treatment 
had improved through use of Pulse Oximeter and Oxygen at the health facilities, and ARI 
Timers by the LHWs. Ownership of the project interventions was built through strengthening 
the existing service delivery systems by improving management practices of healthcare 
Lessons Learnt – Policy Change Outcome 
•
Political will and commitment is essential for policy transformation and rolling out reforms 
agenda in Pakistan. 
•
Joint accountability framework assisted the project in steering the progress monitoring and 
tracking.  
•
Establishing oversight and coordination platforms at all levels are critical in building 
government ownership and steering the project activities.  
•
Decentralization of health sector has created dichotomies among federal level and 
provinces.  
Lessons Learnt – Policy Translation Outcome 
•
Policy translation efforts should be strongly supported through empirical evidence for 
development of advocacy material. 
•
Acceptability of the care providers should be built for introduction of new/revised 
commodities.. 
•
Without financial commitment of the governments, public procurement of updated 
commodities is not possible.  
•
Training material should cater to the local needs in terms of its contents and duration 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
67 
providers, mainly outreach workers and primary level facilities. In order to institutionalize the 
recording and reporting on updated commodities, DHIS tools were revised in both provinces. 
However, gaps in systems provisions, resources and skill sets were required to be filled through 
development of integrated supply chain management system for the targeted districts. The 
Project has initiated its support for implementation of DHIS-2 and HLMIS. The project had 
identified implementing partners who have the capacity and spread across the project provinces 
to effectively implement the project activities in their specific areas. However, a key hurdle in 
policy implementation was the fact that despite the resources and capacities, the local Pharma 
industry lacked interest in local production due to minimal demand of updated commodities in 
open market. 
 
Updated federal and provincial policies and guidelines reflect the recognition of improved 
management as a shared goal. Now, after the project has demonstrated its effectiveness in terms 
of better diagnosis and treatment of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea, the lessons learnt from 
the implementation in two provinces should be replicated in other provinces and regions of 
Pakistan through knowledge management.  
5.1 Proposed Theory of Change 
While assessing the current ToC, the evaluation team found the given TOC not 
adequately developed and unable to convey the pathways of change as described by the project 
management team. A valuable result of the discussion around the given TOC of the project was 
the inference shared by the management team that certain issues and challenges that need 
addressing for resolving bottlenecks in project implementation to ensure achievement of results 
needed different pathways of change. Based on the consultations with all stakeholders, the 
current TOC was thoroughly revised to achieve the desired outcomes of supporting child 
survival in Pakistan through improved diagnosis and treatment of childhood P&D. Proposed 
TOC (Figure 9) was further connected with the proposed recommendations put forward by the 
evaluation team as described in Annex 7. It was reviewed and endorsed by the counterparts at 
Federal Ministry, Provincial Health Departments and UNICEF for course correction and 
ensuring the best use of the remaining project duration. 
 
Lessons Learnt – Policy Implementation Outcome 
•
Evidence of improved management of childhood illnesses through updated commodities 
accelerated the policy implementation phase.  
•
LHWs were empowered through provision of modern diagnostic gadgets. 
•
Engagement of implementing partners pave way for enhancing the array of expertise to 
effectively support the policy implementation.  
•
Despite the resources and capacities, the local pharmaceutical manufacturing industry 
lacked interest in local production due to minimal demand of updated commodities in 
open market. 
Lessons Learnt – Knowledge Management Outcome 
•
A systems strengthening approach is essential to make the project interventions well 
entrenched and effective for improving infant and childhood morbidity and mortality.  
•
Updated federal and provincial policies and guidelines reflect the recognition of improved 
management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea as a shared goal. 
•
Sustainability of P&D project depends on achievement of results as perceived by the 
stakeholders including government, partner agencies, health facility staff and patients.  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
68
Figure 9: Proposed Theory of Change  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
69
6. Recommendations 
The following recommendations were elicited through a consultative and participatory 
process among all key stakeholders mentioned above. Guides used for key informant interviews 
and focus group discussion included sub-sections on the respondents’ perspective on bringing 
improvement in the project and its interventions while moving forward. In addition to these 
respondents, members of the Reference Group at federal level and project implementation team 
at UNICEF all provided valuable inputs in identifying the recommendations. During the 
meetings with these stakeholders, these recommendations were discussed at length and finalized 
in the participatory manner. The recommendations are further divided into short, medium and 
long-term actions according to the stipulated timelines for their implementation. While the 
Project will focus on the short to medium term recommendations, there are certain long-term 
recommendations that will be achievable beyond the project life. Below are the key, strategic 
recommendations followed by a matrix for easy understanding and action: 
In the causal pathway of policy transformation and reforms, the stage of policy 
implementation is the most critical. This is the point where rightly developed policies fail due to 
lack of systems’ capacity to sustain and implement this change on its own. In order to make the 
P&D Project interventions institutionalized in the existing system, the strengthening of health 
sector at individual, organization and systems’ level is of utmost importance. A systems- 
strengthening approach is recommended while moving forward so that the interventions under 
P&D Project are well entrenched in existing system for sustainability beyond the project life. 
This systems strengthening approach will fill the gaps in each building block of the existing 
health system to ensure child survival in Pakistan. This includes building an equitable health 
system, improving quality of care at health facilities and outreach, development of robust 
information systems, establishing integrated supply chain management system and most 
importantly, engagement of private sector, which is providing services to nearly 70% during 
childhood illness in Pakistan.  
Enabling policy environment - Sustenance of federal-provincial-district linkages and 
coordination should be strengthened and continued through existing platforms at federal level 
(RMNCAH Group), provincial level (CSG and TWG), and district level (District Health & 
Population Management Teams). Government capacities at all level should be built and a 
district systems strengthening package should be implemented in the project areas to ensure 
commodities security and training of care providers on IMNCI and information systems. Details 
of the recommended actions along with timeline and roles are given in Table 7, whereas 
proposed short-term immediate actions are as follows: 
• 
Build a systems strengthening framework with package of system strengthening 
interventions at district and provincial levels. 
• 
Policy dialogues and roundtables on improving management of Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea through updated commodities. 
Private sector engagement – Being a service provider of more than two-thirds of 
population, the project should establish wider and proactive public-private partnership models. 
This includes engagement with pharma industry along with Drugs Regulatory Authority of 
Pakistan, institutions regulating medical, nursing and paramedical education. Private care 
providers should be reached out through their professional associations. Details of the 
recommended actions for private sector engagement along with timeline and roles and 
responsibilities are explained in Table 7, whereas proposed short-term immediate actions are as 
follows: 
• 
Initiate dialogues on opportunities for pharma industry and drugs distribution 
networks and DRAP 
• 
Build stronger collaborations with private sector professional associations 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
70 
Advocacy and Communication - Concerted advocacy efforts with political leadership 
for sustained will and commitment is important in policy transformation and reforms. Side by 
side, continued networking and lobbying with pharmaceutical manufacturers for local 
production important. The project should engage relevant partners for leveraging resources and 
coordinated actions. Details of the recommended actions for advocacy and communication 
along with timeline and roles and responsibilities are explained in Table 7, whereas proposed, 
short-term immediate actions are as follows: 
• 
Develop and implement a mass-media engagement plan focusing on childhood 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea 
• 
Develop an advocacy toolkit for policy makers and planners 
Scaling up and replication – Despite the devolution of health sector, the project is 
encouraged to scale up the interventions to cover entire Pakistan. Now, after having experience 
implementation in two of the big provinces of Pakistan, the provincial level interventions will 
not take much effort for replication. Details of the recommended actions for scaling up and 
replication along with timeline and roles and responsibilities are explained in Table 7, whereas 
proposed, short-term immediate actions are as follows: 
• 
Cross-sharing of achievements, challenges and lessons learnt among uncovered 
regions and provinces of Pakistan 
Detailed recommendations are described in the following table with proposed actions and 
timeframe indicating responsibility for each actor. 
Table 7: Recommendations’ Matrix 
Recommendations 
Proposed Actions 
Timelines 
Primary & Secondary 
Responsibility 
ENABLING POLICY ENVIRONMENT 
Fostering CSG/TWG for 
harnessing its optimal 
potential and taking measure 
for sustenance beyond the 
project life 
Institutionalization of 
CSG/TWG through 
inclusion in PC-1 
documents of relevant 
health programs 
(IRMNCH, MNCH and 
LHWs) 
 
Setting-up a small 
secretarial unit for the 
CSG and TWG 
Long term 
CSG and 
TWG 
- 
Short term 
CSG and 
TWG 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
Strengthening of supply chain 
management (from DOH to 
health facilities and outreach) 
Capacity building of DOH 
on supply chain 
management  
Medium term 
SCM 
implementing 
partner 
Federal and 
Provincial 
Governments 
Strengthen federal, provincial 
linkages and coordination to 
implement National Health 
Vision and provincial 
policies/strategies priorities f  
Encourage participation of 
federal representative in 
CSG/TWG  
 
Cross-sharing of 
challenges, lessons learnt 
among the provinces 
Short term 
M/o 
NHSR&C 
and Health 
Departments 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
Short term 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
M/o NHSR&C 
and Health 
Departments 
Revitalization of district level 
decision-making and 
coordination platform for 
enhancing ownership 
Building district 
capacities on forecasting, 
procurement, distribution, 
maintenance and 
warehousing 
Long term 
 
Implementing 
partners 
District Health 
Department 
Linkage of DHIS with 
LMIS 
Medium term 
District 
Health & 
Population 
Management 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
71 
Teams 
Strengthening government 
capacity to roll out LMIS and 
DHIS-02 
Training of provincial and 
district level managers on 
enhancing analytical 
skills, data interpretation 
skills and use of 
information  
 
Experience sharing 
through visits of 
areas/countries where 
DHIS 02 is operational 
for federal and provincial 
managers 
Long term 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team and 
SCM partners 
PRIVATE SECTOR ENGAGEMENT 
Establish wider and 
proactive public-private 
partnership models through 
engaging pharma industry 
along with DRAP, medical, 
nursing and paramedical 
institutions 
Dialogues on opportunities 
for pharma industry and 
drugs distribution network 
Short term 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team  
CSG and TWG 
Enhancing private sector 
engagement for updating 
their prescribing 
behaviours  
Active involvement of 
professional associations in 
advocacy for private 
practitioners 
Medium term 
Professional 
Associations 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
Continued capacity building 
program for service 
providers from both public 
and private providers 
Long term 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
Professional 
Associations 
Engagement of private 
providers through 
professional associations 
for change in prescribing 
behaviours 
   
Government initiating pre-
qualification of potential 
pharmaceutical 
manufacturers  
Medium term 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
Professional 
Associations 
ADVOCACY AND COMMUNICATION 
Continued advocacy with 
pharmaceutical 
manufacturers for local 
production  
 
Engaging with private 
pharma and distribution 
networks by sharing areas of 
opportunities and informing 
them about benefits of 
treatment 
 
Building stronger 
collaborations with DRAP 
and private sector  
Short term 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
Pharma 
industry and 
DRAP 
Direct Demand Creation: 
Convincing provincial health 
authorities to include 
updated commodities in 
provincial procurement lists  
Medium term 
Provincial 
Health 
Department 
Pharmaceutical 
industry 
through 
relevant 
associations 
 
Concerted advocacy efforts 
with political leadership for 
sustained will and 
commitment under the 
GAPPD for childhood 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea 
management 
Policy dialogues and 
roundtables on improving 
management of Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea through 
updated commodities  
Short term 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
 
M/o NHSR&C 
and Health 
Departments 
Mass-media engagement: 
Opinion Editorials in leading 
national newspapers 
Televised debates  
Medium term 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
 
Mass-media 
agencies 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
72 
7. Dissemination 
The report has been accepted by all the key counterparts through a validation workshop 
that was conducted on 24th December as part of the IRMNACH Technical Committee meeting. 
Another dissemination is planned by UNICEF where evaluation team will present the key 
findings and recommendations along with case studies (Annex 4) and a policy brief to 
disseminate the evaluation to a wider audience.  
Advocacy on the benefits 
of updated commodities for 
replacing existing finances 
for alternative procurement 
Support to provincial health 
departments in sustainable 
implementation of integrated 
HLMIS through 
development of PC-1 
Medium term 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team  
Provincial 
Health 
Departments 
Leveraging resources 
through advocacy and 
involvement of relevant 
stakeholders 
Strengthen district level 
action planning with 
inclusion of trainings with 
required resources 
 
Engagement of donors and 
development partners 
 
Engagement of Nursing 
Council, Midwifery 
Associations , PPP, 
Healthcare Commissions 
relevant DoH / Health inst. 
for curricula revision and 
trainings of HCPs and 
CHWs 
Long term 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team  
Provincial 
Health 
Departments 
and Districts 
Two-pronged approach 
with concurrent advocacy 
efforts to mitigate inherent 
barriers in local production 
and public procurement 
Advocate with government 
and pharma industry for 
procurement of revised 
commodities  
Private sector engagement 
and proactive collaboration 
with DRAP 
Short term 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team  
Provincial 
Health 
Departments 
SCALING UP AND REPLICATION 
Translation of lessons 
learnt to other geographical 
settings 
Evidence-based policy 
advocacy - enhancement of 
geographic coverage of the 
interventions 
 
Rolling-out IMNCI in target 
provinces and advocacy for 
replication in other provinces 
and regions of Pakistan 
Long term 
 
 
M/o 
NHSR&C 
and Health 
Departments 
 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
 
 
Scale up and replication of 
these interventions to non-
project provinces and 
regions of Pakistan 
Sharing of findings of MTE 
with Health Departments and 
stakeholders of other 
provinces and regions of 
Pakistan 
Short term 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
Provincial 
Health 
Departments 
Resource allocation - donor 
identification and 
earmarking of funds 
Medium term 
 
Provincial 
Health 
Departments 
CSG and TWG 
Evidence-based policy 
advocacy - enhancement of 
geographic coverage of the 
interventions 
Long term 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
Provincial 
Health 
Departments 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
73
8. References 
Alijanzadeh, M., Moosaniaye Zare, S., Rajaee, R., Mousavi Fard, S., Asefzadeh, S., Alijanzadeh, M., & Gholami, S. 
(2016). Comparison Quality of Health Services between Public and Private Providers: The Iranian People’s 
Perspective. Electronic Physician, 8(9), 2935-2941. doi: 10.19082/2935 
Arregoces, L., Daly, F., Pitt, C., Hsu, J., Martinez-Alvarez, M., Greco, G., ... & Borghi, J.(2015). Countdown to 
2015: changes in official development assistance to reproductive, maternal, newborn, and child health, and 
assessment of progress between 2003 and 2012. The Lancet Global Health, 3(7), e410-e421. 
Bhutta, Z., Das, J., Hafeez, A.,  Rizvi, A., Ali, N., Khan, A.,& Ahmad, F. et. al. (2013). Reproductive, maternal, 
newborn, and child health in Pakistan: challenges and opportunities . The Lancet, 381(9884), 2207-2218. 
Doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(12)61999-0 
Bhutta, Z., Das, J., Walker, N., Rizvi, A., Campbell, H., Rudan, I., & Black, R. (2013). Interventions to address 
deaths from childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea equitably: What works and at what cost? The Lancet, 
381(9875), 1417-1429.doi:10.1016/s0140-6736 (13)60648-0 
Bennett, J. Correlates of Child Mortality in Pakistan: A Hazards Model Analysis. The Pakistan Development 
Review, 1999; 38(1):85-118. 
Berlan, D. (2015). Pneumonia’s second wind? A case study of the global health network for childhood 
Pneumonia. Health policy and planning, 31(suppl_1), i33-i47. 
British Medical Bulletin,93(1), 7-26. doi:10.1093/bmb/ldp048 https://academic.oup.com/bmb/article/93/1/7/308136 
Booth, B., and M. Verma (1992) Decreased Access to Medical Care for Girls in Punjab, India: The Roles of Age, 
Religion, and Distance. American Journal of Public Health 82:2 1155–1157.  
Committing to child survival: a promise renewed, leaflet available at: http://www.apromiserenewed.org/, accessed 
30th May, 2017. 
Dessalegn M, Kumie A, Tefera W. Predictors of under-five childhood Diarrhea: Mecha District, West Gojam, 
Ethiopia. Ethiop J Health Dev. 2011;25(3):192–200. 
Houweling, T. A., & Kunst, A. E. (2009). Socio-economic inequalities in childhood mortality in low- and middle-
income countries: A review of the international evidence [Abstract].  
International Vaccine Access Centre (IVAC), Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. (2016). 
Pneumonia & Diarrhea Progress Report 2016: Reaching Goals Through Action and Innovation. 
IVAC. (2016). Retrieved from https://www.jhsph.edu/ivac/resources/2018-Pneumonia-and-Diarrhea-progress-
report/ 
Levels and Trends in Child Mortality Report 2018 | United Nations Population Division | Department of Economic 
and 
Social 
Affairs. 
(2018). 
Retrieved 
from 
https://www.un.org/en/development/desa/population/publications/mortality/child-mortality-report-
2018.asp 
Pakistan Social and  Living Standards Measurement  Survey (2014-15), Publication key findings. 
PATH, Tackling Pneumonia and Diarrheal Disease through Programme and Policy Coordination: A case study of 
PATH’s integrated approach in Cambodia, August 2012.   
Picciotto, R. (2005). The Evaluation of Policy Coherence for Development. Evaluation, 11(3), 311-330. doi: 
10.1177/1356389005058479 
Qazi, S., Aboubaker, S., MacLean, R., Fontaine, O., Mantel, C., & Goodman, T. et al. (2015). Ending preventable 
child deaths from Pneumonia and diarrhoea by 2025. Development of the integrated Global Action Plan for 
the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea. Archives Of Disease In Childhood, 100(Suppl 1), 
S23-S28. doi: 10.1136/archdischild-2013-305429 
Rachiotis, G., Kourousis, C., Kamilaraki, M., Symvoulakis, E., Dounias, G., & Hadjichristodoulou, C. (2014). 
Medical Supplies Shortages and Burnout among Greek Health Care Workers during Economic Crisis: a 
Pilot Study. International Journal Of Medical Sciences, 11(5), 442-447. doi: 10.7150/ijms.7933 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
74 
Resolution WHA63.24. Accelerated progress towards achievement of Millennium Development Goal 4 to reduce 
child mortality: prevention and treatment of Pneumonia, 2010. 
Taylor, M. E., Schumacher, R., & Davis, N. (2016). Mapping Global Leadership in Child Health.Retrieved from 
https://www.jhsph.edu/ivac/resources/2018-Pneumonia-and-Diarrhea-progress-report/ 
UNICEF, (2018). Landscape analysis for policy translation and commodity access in Pakistan. 
UNICEF, one is too many; Ending child deaths from Pneumonia and Diarrhea, November, 2016. 
Unicef. (2018). Landscape Analysis. 
UNICEF (2018). Pakistan’s National Nutrition Survey, 2018. 
UNICEF Pakistan (2019). Retrieved on August 15, 2019, from https://www.unicef.org/pakistan/health  
UNICEF/WHO, (2012). Progress on drinking water and sanitation:2012 update. New York. 
United Nations Commission on Life-Saving Commodities for Women and Children. Implementation plan. New 
York, 
United 
Nations, 
2012. 
Available 
at: 
http://www. 
everywomaneverychild.org/images/Implementation_ plan_Sept_2012.pdf, accessed 25th May, 2017. 
United Nations Secretary General. Global strategy for women’s and children’s health. Geneva, Partnership for 
Maternal, Newborn and Child Health, 2012. 
WHO, 
Pneumonia: 
the 
forgotten 
killer 
of 
children. 
(2019). 
Retrieved 
from 
https://www.who.int/maternal_child_adolescent/documents/9280640489/en/ 
WHO. Global Vaccine Action Plan. Geneva, WHO, 2012, Resolution WHAA65/22 
WHO/UNICEF. Ending preventable child deaths from Pneumonia and diarrhoea by 2025: The integrated Global 
Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea. Geneva, WHO, 2013. 
Woldu W, Bitew BD, Gizaw Z. Socioeconomic factors associated with Diarrheal diseases among under-five 
children of the nomadic population in northeast Ethiopia. Tropical Medicine and Health. 2016; 44:40. 
doi:10.1186/s41182-016-0040-7. 
World Health Organization (2015). Strategies towards ending preventable maternal mortality (EPMM). Retrieved 
from https://apps.who.int/iris/bitstr….  
World Health Organization (2017). Documents on the Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses. Retrieved 
from https://www.who.int/maternal_child_adolescent/documents/imci/en  
World Health Organization (2018). Retrieved June 4, 2019, from https://www.who.int/gho/child_health/mortality / 
World Health Organization, & UNICEF. (2013). Ending preventable child deaths from Pneumonia and diarrhoea by 
2025: The integrated Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD). 
 
 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
75 
9. Bibliography 
 
Baqui AH, Black RE, El Arifeen S, Yunus M, Chakraborty J, Ahmed S, et al. Effect of zinc supplementation started 
during diarrhoea on morbidity and mortality in Bangladeshi children: community randomised trial. BMJ 
2002;325:1059. PMID:12424162 doi:10.1136/bmj.325.7372.1059 
Das, S. K., Faruque, A. S. G., Chisti, M. J., Malek, M. A., Salam, M. A., & Sack, D. A. (2012). Changing trend of 
persistent diarrhoea in young children over two decades: observations from a large diarrhoeal disease 
hospital in Bangladesh. Acta Pædiatrica, 101(10). 
 https://www.UNICEF.org /infobycountry/pakistan_pakistan_statistics.html 
List of Essential Medicines. (2017). Health.punjab.gov.pk. 
National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS) [Pakistan] and ICF. 2019. Pakistan Demographic and Health Survey 
2017-18. Islamabad, Pakistan, and Rockville, Maryland, USA: NIPS and ICF. 
Oral Rehydration Salts and Zinc: UNICEF Suppliers and Product Range. (2016). . UNICEF. 
Pakistan Social and Living Standards Measurement  Survey (2014-15), Publication key findings. 
PATH, Tackling Pneumonia and Diarrheal Disease through Programme and Policy Coordination: A case study of 
PATH’s integrated approach in Cambodia, August 2012.   
Six domains of health care quality.(n.d.).Retrieved from https://www.ahrq.gov/talkingquality/measures/six-
domains.html 
Technical Resource Facility (2012). Health Facility Assessment – Pakistan National Report 
UNICEF. 
(n.d). 
Dispersible 
tablets. 
Leaflet. 
Retrieved 
from; 
https://www.UNICEF.org/supply/files/Dispersible_Tablets.pdf 
UNICEF (2006), Management of Sick Children by Community Health Workers: Intervention Model and 
Programme Example. ISBN-13: 978-92-806-3985-8  
UNICEF (2011).Operational Guidance on Promoting Gender Equality through UNICEF Supported Programming. 
Retrieved from  
https://www.UNICEF.org/gender/files/Overarching_Layout_Web.pdf 
 
UNICEF (2014-2017) Gender Action Plan (GAP)  
https://www.UNICEF.org/esaro/UNICEF_Gender_Action_Plan_2014-2017.pdf 
 
UNICEF (2018). Gender Equality and Rights. Retrieved from  
https://www.UNICEF.org/rosa/media/1776/file/Gender%20equality%20and%20rights%20annual%20repor
t%202017.pdf 
 
UNICEF (2018). Landscape Analysis for Policy Translation and Commodity Access in Pakistan. 
UNICEF (2018). Pakistan’s National Nutrition Survey, 2018. 
UNICEF Pakistan (2019). Retrieved on August 15, 2019, from https://www.unicef.org/pakistan/health  
World Health Organization (2017). Documents on the Integrated Management of Childhood Illnesses. 
https://www.who.int/maternal_child_adolescent/documents/imci/en  
World Health Organization (2018). Retrieved June 4, 2019, from https://www.who.int/gho/child_health/mortality / 
World Health Organization. (2006). Handbook IMCI Integrated Management of Childhood Illness. Geneva. 
Yewale, V. N. (2014). ‘Two Birds, One Stone’ Approach–Integrated Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea. 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
76 
10. Annexes  
Annex 1: Evaluation Matrix 
Criteria 
Evaluation Questions 
Indicators 
Data Sources 
Data Collection Methods 
Data Collection 
Tools 
Relevance 
How relevant and meaningful are the project 
objectives and activities in addressing the needs and 
priorities of the marginalized and vulnerable children 
in the project areas? 
• 
Empirical evidence supporting 
use of updated commodities for 
management of Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea in girls and boys 
 
 
Secondary 
• Desk review of empirical 
evidence  
 
• Review 
guidelines 
 
• 
Acceptance of communities for 
use of recommended 
commodities  
 
Primary 
• KII with facility in-charges 
(BHUs and RHCs) 
• FGD with service providers 
(GPs) 
• FGD with LHWs 
• FGD with Beneficiaries 
• KII Guides 
• FGD Guides 
What is the relevancy of the project with the Federal 
and provincial DoH as well as the services being 
provided by the private sector? 
• 
Level of priority of childhood 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea in 
federal and provincial policies 
and strategic frameworks 
 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Desk review  
• KIIs with M/oNHSR&C 
representative 
• KIIs with provincial 
government representatives 
• Representatives of pediatric 
associations and CSG 
• Review 
guidelines  
• KIIs Guides 
•  
To what extent the objectives of the project are 
consistent with the existing national/provincial 
policies and guidelines in line with global 
recommendations (WHO/ GAPPD) for management 
of Diarrhea and 
Pneumonia among under-five children in Pakistan and 
are sustainable? 
• 
Objectives of the project are 
aligned to the recommendation 
of WHO/GAPPD for 
management of Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Desk review  
• KIIs with M/oNHSR&C 
representative 
• KIIs with provincial 
government representatives 
• Representatives of pediatric 
associations and CSG 
 
• Review 
guidelines  
• KIIs Guides 
•  
Are the strategies or approaches appropriate and 
• 
Appropriateness and adequacy 
Primary & 
• Desk review  
• Review 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
77 
Criteria 
Evaluation Questions 
Indicators 
Data Sources 
Data Collection Methods 
Data Collection 
Tools 
adequate to achieve results? 
of interventions under 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea 
Project for child survival, both 
girls and boys 
Secondary 
• KIIs with M/oNHSR&C 
representative 
• KIIs with provincial 
government representatives 
• Representatives of CSG 
guidelines  
• KIIs Guides 
•  
 
Effectiveness 
To what extent the project has achieved its objectives/ 
outcomes and what were the major factors influencing 
the achievement or non‐achievement of the 
objectives/ outcomes? 
• 
Updated national and 
provincial policies and 
guidelines, in line with GAPPD 
recommendations, available 
• 
Joint accountability framework 
endorsed and notified by the 
competent authority at federal 
and provincial level 
• 
Local manufacturers advocated 
for production of 
recommended P&D 
commodities in Pakistan 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Desk review  
• KIIs with M/oNHSR&C 
representative 
• KIIs with provincial 
government representatives 
 
• Review 
guidelines  
• KIIs Guides 
•  
To what extent the implementation of the project 
approaches worked as intended, particularly after the 
baseline in 2016 and subsequent adjustments? 
• 
Project milestones identified at 
the inception of the project 
• 
Achievement of project 
millstones against planned 
 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Desk review of project 
documents 
• KIIs with UNICEF project staff 
• Review 
guidelines  
• KIIs Guides 
 
Whether the mechanisms available to create 
awareness among communities are effectively linked 
to the project objectives? 
• 
Mass media campaign 
conducted for social and 
behavioural change in target 
communities, particularly 
focusing on girl child 
 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Desk review of project 
documents 
• KIIs with government 
representatives at federal, 
provincial and district levels 
• KIIs with UNICEF project staff 
• FGDs with LHWs and 
beneficiaries  
• Review 
guidelines 
• KIIs and FGDs 
Guides 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
78 
Criteria 
Evaluation Questions 
Indicators 
Data Sources 
Data Collection Methods 
Data Collection 
Tools 
Whether the healthcare provider and community 
health workers have the required knowledge and skills 
to proper utilization of supplies as per standards? 
• 
Revised National P&D/IMNCI 
guidelines utilized to improve 
knowledge and capacity 
building of Healthcare Workers 
• 
Capacities of health care 
providers built on management 
of P&D on updated 
commodities 
 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Desk review of project 
documents 
• KIIs with government 
representatives at federal, 
provincial and district levels 
• KIIs with UNICEF project staff 
• FGDs with LHWs and 
beneficiaries  
• Review 
guidelines 
• KIIs and FGDs 
Guides 
Whether the monitoring and reporting mechanisms 
exist and effectively implemented for effective 
tracking and improvement in system? 
• 
Joint accountability framework 
implemented at federal and 
provincial levels 
• 
Reporting tools on facility 
level data  (DHIS Tools) 
updated with revised indicators 
on recommended commodities  
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Desk review of project 
documents 
• Desk review of revised DHIS 
tools 
• KIIs with government 
representatives at federal, 
provincial and district levels 
• KIIs with UNICEF project staff 
• FGDs with LHWs and 
beneficiaries  
• Review 
guidelines 
• KIIs and FGDs 
Guides 
How effective are the ‘innovative approaches like use 
of ARI timers and pulse oximeter, what results can be 
achieved, are replicable within the Sindh/Punjab 
context? 
• 
Effect of use of ARI Timers by 
LHWs on management of 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea in 
girls and boys 
• 
Effect of use of updated 
commodities by healthcare 
providers (public and private) 
on Pneumonia and Diarrhea 
management in girls and boys 
Primary & 
Secondary 
 
• Global best practices on 
recommended commodities 
• Case study analysis 
• KIIs with Federal, Provincial 
and District stakeholders 
• KII with facility in-charges 
• FGDs with LHWs and 
beneficiaries  
•  
• Case study 
analysis 
guidelines 
• KIIs and FGDs 
Guides 
• Facility 
checklists 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
79 
Criteria 
Evaluation Questions 
Indicators 
Data Sources 
Data Collection Methods 
Data Collection 
Tools 
To what extent the programme has been able to 
contribute to ownership and leadership of the 
provincial/ area DOHs? 
 
• 
Level of participation of 
provincial government officials 
in child survival groups 
• 
Provincial Minimum Service 
Delivery Package (MSDP) 
containing recommended 
commodities 
• 
Revision of EML and 
procurement lists 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Review of MSDP, EML and 
procurement lists 
• KIIs with federal, provincial 
and district levels 
• KIIs with UNICEF project staff 
•  
• Review 
guidelines 
• KIIs and FGDs 
Guides  
What have been the major factors influencing the 
achievement or non-achievement of outcomes? 
• 
Factors identified that 
influenced achievements or 
non-achievement of project 
outcomes 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Desk review of project 
documents 
• KIIs with federal, provincial 
and district stakeholders 
• KII with facility in-charges 
• FGDs with service providers 
and beneficiaries  
• Review 
guidelines 
• KIIs and FGDs 
Guides 
To what extent the programme learned and evolved 
over the 2 years and whether there were other 
alternatives, more cost‐effective strategies available to 
reach intended results? 
• 
Project adjustments made for 
behind schedule or under target 
outcome/output  
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Desk review of project 
documents  
• KII with project staff 
•  
• Review 
guidelines and 
Tool 
• KIIs Guides 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
80 
Criteria 
Evaluation Questions 
Indicators 
Data Sources 
Data Collection Methods 
Data Collection 
Tools 
Efficiency 
How well the resources, both human and financial, 
been managed to ensure timely attainment of results?  
• 
Timeliness of the achievement 
of project activities 
 
Primary & 
Secondary 
 
• Desk review of project 
documents 
• KIIs with UNICEF project staff 
• Review 
Guidelines 
• KIIs Guides 
•  
To what extent planning, budgeting, monitoring and 
evaluation, supervision, coordination, logistics and 
financial management systems are functioning in 
support of the project objectives? 
• 
Project management functions 
performed over time 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Desk review of project 
documents 
• KIIs with UNICEF project staff 
• Review 
Guidelines 
• KIIs Guides 
 
What are the implementation challenges from the 
perspective of both right holders and duty bearers 
especially for the under‐five marginalized children of 
communities? 
• 
Availability of recommended 
commodities in the open 
market 
• 
Uninterrupted supply of P&D 
recommended commodities at 
health facilities  
 
Primary 
 
 
 
 
• KIIs with Federal, Provincial 
and District stakeholders 
• KII with facility in-charges  
• FGDs with LHWs, GPs, 
pharmacists and beneficiaries 
• KII with representative of 
pharmaceutical manufacturers 
• KIIs and FGDs 
Guides 
• Facility checklist 
To what extent has the project leveraged additional 
resources to address identified gaps? 
• 
Additional resources leveraged 
through support of government 
at federal and provincial levels 
• 
Additional resources leveraged 
through advocacy with other 
donors and development 
partners  
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Review of project documents 
• KIIs with government 
representatives at federal and 
provincial levels 
• KIIs with UNICEF project staff  
• Review 
Guidelines  
• KIIs Guides 
What is the value added in terms of service delivery 
for Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
• 
Supply of P&D recommended 
commodities at public facilities  
• 
Availability of recommended 
commodities in open market 
• 
Effect on prescribing 
behaviours of healthcare 
providers and outreach workers  
Primary 
• KII with provincial and district 
levels 
• KII with facility in-charges 
• Prescription review analysis  
• FGDs with LHWs, GPs, 
pharmacists and beneficiaries 
 
• Prescription 
review tool 
• FGD and KII 
guides 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
81 
Criteria 
Evaluation Questions 
Indicators 
Data Sources 
Data Collection Methods 
Data Collection 
Tools 
What actions including innovations are needed to 
improve the coverage? 
• 
Revised national IMNCI 
guidelines for healthcare 
providers with shorter duration  
• 
Replicability potential of the 
project to other provinces and 
regions of the country 
• 
Supply chain management for 
commodities security at public 
facilities 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Review of IMNCI guidelines 
• Consultative meetings in 
uncovered provinces 
• KII with provincial and district 
levels 
• KII with facility in-charges 
 
• Review 
Guidelines  
• Tool for 
consultative 
meetings 
Whether the availability of P&D supplies is adequate, 
timely and cost effective? 
• 
Stock-out of recommended of 
recommended commodities at 
public facilities 
• 
Availability of recommended 
commodities at medical stores 
and pharmacies 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Desk review of project 
documents 
• KIIs with federal, provincial 
and district stakeholders 
• KII with facility in-charges 
• FGDs with LHWs, GPs, 
pharmacists and beneficiaries  
• Review 
guidelines 
• KIIs and FGDs 
Guides 
To what extent has the project achieved its goals in 
enhancing the health outcomes especially of under 
five children in the catchment communities in Sindh 
and Punjab target districts? 
 
• 
Effect of use of recommended 
commodities on Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea management 
among girls and boys in project 
areas 
 
Primary  
• Prescription review analysis  
• KII with provincial and district 
levels 
• KII with facility in-charges 
• FGDs with LHWs, GPs and 
beneficiaries 
• Prescription 
review tool 
• FGD and KII 
guides 
Sustainability 
What evidences exists to see the likelihood of the 
project results are sustained and will be adopted by 
the Government to ensure that the ultimate goal of the 
programme is achieved? 
• 
Policies and guidelines updated 
through revision of IMNCI 
guidelines, MSDP, EML, 
procurement list and DHIS 
tools 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Review of federal and 
provincial policy documents 
and guidelines 
• KIIs with Federal, Provincial, 
and District stakeholders 
• Review 
guidelines and 
Tool 
• KII Guides 
What internal/external factors and drivers contribute 
to or constrain the sustainability of the project? 
• 
Regularity of meetings of the 
federal and provincial 
coordination forums 
• 
Actions taken on decisions of 
CSG and TWG meetings 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• CSG minutes of meetings 
• KIIs with provincial 
stakeholders 
•  
• Review 
Guidelines  
• KIIs Guides 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
82 
Criteria 
Evaluation Questions 
Indicators 
Data Sources 
Data Collection Methods 
Data Collection 
Tools 
What is being planned to sustain the process with 
government support beyond 2019? 
• 
Availability of project 
sustainability plan with roles 
and responsibilities for 
government support at federal 
and provincial levels 
Primary & 
Secondary 
• Review of project documents 
• KIIs with Federal, Provincial, 
and District stakeholders 
• Review 
Guidelines 
• KIIs Guides 
What is required to ensure prospects of sustainability 
of the project outcomes and the potential for 
replication or scale up of good practices and/or 
innovative approaches? 
• 
Level of government 
ownership and donors 
commitment for project 
sustainability  
Primary 
• KIIs with Federal, Provincial, 
and District stakeholders 
• KIIs with UNICEF staff  
• KIIs Guides  
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
83
Annex 2: Evaluation Team Composition 
Evaluation Team Composition 
BACKSTOPPING AND ADVISORY TEAM 
 
 
Health Specialist  
Dr. Naeem uddin Mian 
Health Systems Experts 
Professor Dr. Ashraf Majrooh 
TECHNICAL TEAM 
Evaluation Expert  
Dr. Muhammad Adeel Alvi 
Research Expert 
Ms. Mariam Z. Malik 
Public Health Specialists 
Dr. Farooq Umer 
Dr. Rabia Suljuk 
Qualitative Research Expert 
Professor Dr. Rubeena Zakar 
Medical Anthropologist 
Ms. Hira Hasan 
Bio-Statistician 
Mr. Abdul Hamid 
Field Supervisor 
Mr. Saleem Shehzad 
FIELD TEAM 
Enumerators  
8 females and 4 males 
Sociologists 
5 female moderators and 5 female note-takers 
 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
84 
Annex 3: Ethical Review Board Certificate 
 
 
 
 
 
HML Institutional Review Board 
1101 Connecticut Avenue, NW Suite 450 
Washington, DC 20036  USA 
+1.202.753.5040 
unicef@hmlirb.com   www.hmlirb.com 
US Department of Health & Human Services, Office of Human Research Protections IRB #00001211 
 
Research Ethics Approval 
13 September 2019 
 
 
Dr. Muhammad Adeel Alvi  
Principal Investigator 
c/o UNICEF MENARO 
Aman, Jordan 
 
 
RE: 
Ethics Review Board findings for:  Midterm Evaluation of UNICEF’s Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea Project in Pakistan 
 
 
Dear Dr. Alvi, 
 
Protocols for the protection of human subjects in the above study were assessed through a 
research ethics review by HML Institutional Review Board on 26 August – 12 September 2019. 
 
This study’s human subjects’ protection protocols, as stated in the materials submitted, received 
ethics review approval.  Please notify this IRB of any changes in this study’s design, risks, 
consent, or other human subject protection protocols.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
D. Michael Anderson, Ph.D., MPH 
Chair & Human Subjects Protections Director, HML IRB 
 
cc: Shamshad Begum, Penelope Lantz, JD 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
85 
Annex 4: Case Studies 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
86 
 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
88 
 
CONCLUSION
It is established fact that DTs are more eﬃcient than syrup in terms of their preparation, similar plasma 
concentration, dosage, palatability, packaging, storage, handling, logistics and cost. The inclusion of DTs in essential 
medicines lists, procurement lists and Minimum Service Delivery Packages (MSDPs) are all contributing 
substantially in achieving the goal of healthy children and their survival in Pakistan. UNICEF’s approach to promote 
and advocate for use of DTs in management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea are eventually expected to facilitate 
decline in childhood morbidity and mortality in Pakistan. The evaluation results recommend that in order to 
maximise this positive impact of DTs in better P&D management, UNICEF should take up two-pronged approach 
involving concurrent advocacy eﬀorts to mitigate inherent barriers in local production and public procurement, and 
engagement of private providers through professional associations for change in prescribing behaviors. 
Accelerating Policy Change, Translation and Implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Commodities in Pakistan
2
D T
D T
D T
UNICEF through support 
of BMGF introduced use 
of Dispersible Tablets at 
primary healthcare 
facilities in selected 
districts of Sindh and 
Punjab due to their:
- accuracy of dosage
- easy administration
- convenience in logistics 
- cost eﬀectiveness 
Healthcare 
providers 
perceived that 
accuracy of dosage 
of medicines for 
treating Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea is a 
challenge
Pakistan is 3rd in 
the list of countries 
with the highest 
number of 
Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea child 
deaths in the world
In less than two years of 
introduction, nearly 50% 
of healthcare providers 
have started prescribing 
DTs in intervention 
districts
UNICEF Pakistan (2019). Retrieved on August 15, 2019, from https://www.unicef.org/pakistan/health
UNICEF. (n.d). Dispersible tablets. Retrieved on August 21, 2019 from https://www.UNICEF.org/supply/ﬁles/Dispersible_Tablets.pdf 
OUTCOME 
Based on the situation analysis and learning from best 
practices, UNICEF provided technical support to federal 
and provincial governments to procure and distribute 
DTs to ensure availability at primary level healthcare 
facilities and community level in target districts of 
Punjab and Sindh. Provincial manager informed, 
“Amoxicillin DT and Zinc DT have been made part of the 
Essential Medicine List.” Amoxicillin & Zinc DT are now 
part and parcel of Minimum Service Delivery Package 
(MSDP) for the healthcare facilities in Punjab. Analysis 
revealed 
that 
UNICEF 
procured 
and 
supplied 
approximately 
169,744 
Amoxicillin 
DTs 
and 
Co-packaged Zinc DTs at ~2,458 primary healthcare 
facilities in Sindh and ~ 450 health facilities in Punjab. 
At community level, Zinc DTs were made available to 
LHWs in both Punjab and Sindh. Through the eﬀorts of 
this project, Government has included Amoxicillin DTs 
and Zinc DTs for P&D in the procurement lists of 
healthcare facilities, ensuring the sustainability of 
these drugs at the healthcare facilities beyond the life 
of the project.The facility in-charges in both Punjab and 
Sindh discussed DTs, in terms of their availability, 
acceptability and practicality as a formulation in 
comparison with syrup. Dispersible Tablets have gained 
popularity and Zinc DTs were present in majority of the 
facilities in Sindh and Punjab, and facility in-charges 
were aware of their beneﬁts. Facility in-charge from 
Sindh shared their views on DTs beneﬁts, “These are 
more eﬀective than syrup, exact dosage is administered 
through them which is essential for recovery.” DTs were 
perceived to not only provide appropriate management 
but also had additional beneﬁts of accurate dosage and 
easy administration for caregivers with low literacy 
rates. Further, in support of evaluation ﬁndings, 
quantitative 
analysis 
of 
two 
recent 
Pakistan 
Demographic and Health Surveys reveal that there has 
been signiﬁcant improvement regarding seeking 
treatment or advice from healthcare providers and 
front line workers. Statistics show that the practice of 
seeking advice or treatment for both Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea has signiﬁcantly improved (61% in 2012-13 
to 71% in 2017-18 for Diarrhea) and (64% in 2012-13 
to 84% for ARI). Evidence also suggest that during the 
last ﬁve years, use of zinc for treatment of Diarrhea has 
increased signiﬁcantly, i.e. 2% in 2012-13 to 13% in 
2017-18. Thus, improvement in management of P&D is 
evident, which can be taken as an indication of positive 
impact of UNICEF’ support and advocacy to warrant 
early and accurate treatment.
Midterm Evaluation Report 
89 
Annex 5: Guides for Interviews and Focus Group Discussions 
 
Guide for Ministry of Health Service Regulation and Coordination and Provincial DoH 
 
Before starting interview, remember to: 
⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit  
⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of study objectives 
⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 
 
1. Do the national/provincial/ policies/strategies and guidelines incorporate the global 
recommendations for pneumonia and diarrhea? 
 
2. Who are key stakeholders supporting the Government in P&D management? 
 
3. Have the policies on community case management for pneumonia and diarrhea 
updated according to the global recommendations (World Health Organization 
(WHO)/Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD)? 
a. Who has supported the Government in updating these guidelines (development 
partners, e.g. UNICEF)?  
 
4. Has UNICEF provided any technical support to national and provincial governments 
for updating/revising the following in alignment with GAPPD: 
a. Child survival related policies/strategies in terms of updating of management 
guidelines (IMNCI)  
b. Essential medicines lists with inclusion of Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, LORS 
and Zinc 
c. Minimum Service Delivery Package (MSDP) 
i. Have these been endorsed by TWG, Child Survival and the 
Government through consensus? 
ii. Was there any orientation carried out?  
iii. Is it being implemented?  
 
5. Has UNICEF’s P&D project facilitated the Government in strengthening of logistics 
system and in updating the procurement lists (MSDP and PC-1s) including ARI 
Timers, Pulse Oximeters and Oxygen for appropriate levels of service delivery? 
a. Have these been endorsed by TWG, Child Survival and the Government 
through consensus? 
b. Was there any orientation carried out?  
c. Is it being implemented? Has the supply chain management system updated 
according to the required commodities?  
d. How is the Government ensuring supply of pneumonia & diarrhea 
commodities from DoH and district health offices downstream to facility 
levels? 
6. Has UNICEF P&D project provided any support to Government in strengthening of 
comprehensive supply chain management system including forecasting, procurement, 
distribution, real time stock maintenance, and warehousing involving different 
programmes and their linkage with DHIS? 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
90 
7. Has UNICEF P&D project provided any technical assistance to DoH/DHIS cell for 
updating of DHIS software and tools and implementing recommendations for its 
linking with LMIS and for: 
a. Printing and dissemination of revised DHIS tools 
b. Orientation of master trainers (provincial level) and relevant health facility 
staff (selected district level) on revised DHIS tools 
 
8. What coordination mechanism exist for management of diarrhea and pneumonia 
among under five children in Pakistan at national level, e.g. Child Survival Groups, 
Technical Working Group  
 
9. Are the community IMNCI training manuals revised? Who was responsible for their 
revision? Has UNICEF provided technical assistance for the revision?  
a. Have these been endorsed by TWG, Child Survival and the Government 
through consensus? 
b. Was there any orientation carried out to endorse the revised community 
IMNCI Training Modules?  
 
10. Have the treatment protocols for pneumonia and diarrhea updated according to new 
recommendations (EML, IMNCI, MSDP and Procurement lists etc.)? 
a. Are job-aids, reporting tools and training material for healthcare providers 
revised accordingly? 
b. What plans are there for refresher training of health workers (facility and 
community) that will be an opportunity to introduce new treatment protocols?  
c. Has UNICEF facilitated the Government in the process?  
 
11. What are the structural nonstructural factors that affect policy change, its translation 
and subsequent implementation with reference to pneumonia and diarrhea 
commodities? 
 
12. Have the policy changes been implemented in consideration of Gender and HRB 
approaches? Any example 
 
13. How will Government ensure the sustainability of these policy changes? 
 
14. How can the policy translation be achieved effectively?  
15. Who are potential key stakeholders that can institute a policy change? 
16. What are some of the barriers that are hindering the policy level processes? 
17. What are some of the facilitators that act as a catalyst for the desired change? 
            Any suggestions for improvement in UNICEF P&D Project  
 
 
Guide for LHW Coordinator 
 
Before starting interview, remember to: 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
91 
⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit  
⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of study objectives 
⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 
1. 
First I’d like to ask you about the role of LHWs and LHSs in reducing morbidity and mortality 
associated with Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children. 
• 
What are the provincial policies and guidelines for LHW Programme to deliver child health 
services? 
• 
In your opinion, how adequate are these policies/guidelines to ensure the availability of 
services, particularly for the management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
2. 
To what extent the programme is sustainable after regularization of LHWs and provincialization of 
the programme? 
• 
Probe about financial sustainability of the programme in relation to further expansion and 
improvement of existing quality of services  
3. 
What is the status/coverage of LHWs and LHSs in your province? 
• 
Is required number of LHWs present to cover your entire province? If not, what are the 
reasons for non-availability of LHWs? 
• 
Is the required number of LHSs available to supervise the LHWs? 
• 
In your opinion, how availability of LHSs and LHWs can be improved in your province? 
4. 
What do you think about the competence of LHSs and LHWs to manage diarrhea and pneumonia in 
children at household level and for referral of complicated cases? 
• 
What is routine mechanism for in-service training and capacity building of LHSs and 
LHWs in your province? 
• 
Is there any specific training for prevention and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea, like 
IMCI or any other training? 
• 
If you don’t have in built mechanism of in-service training in your province, what else have 
you done for this purpose?   
5. 
What is the current status of availability of commodities and equipment for child health services, 
particularly for diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea?  
• 
Are sufficient amount of antipyretics, antibiotics (particularly Amoxicillin), L-ORS and 
Zinc are provided to the LHSs and LHWs?  
• 
In what formulation are these commodities usually provided? Probe for DT?  
• 
What are the common reasons for stock-outs of these commodities? 
• 
Are any specific equipment, like ARI timers/pulse oximeter, provided to the LHWs for 
better managing the cases of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
• 
In your opinion, how can the uninterrupted supply of these commodities be ensured for 
LHSs and LHWs? 
6. 
Can you put some light on LHW-MIS?   
• 
What do you think about the sufficiency of LHW-MIS tools for recording and reporting 
regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
• 
Do these reports provide adequate cover and indicate the shortage of commodities? 
• 
Have you made any decisions regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea on the 
basis of the reports generated at provincial level? Kindly give some examples. 
• 
How can the recording and reporting of LHSs and LHWs’ services be improved? 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
92 
7. 
What are your in built mechanisms for monitoring and supervision of LHWSs and LHWs?  
• 
What is the current supervision policy? At which level responsibility of supervision is 
fixed? 
• 
Is the supervision integrated or service specific e.g. for EPI, CMWs, LHWs, etc.? 
• 
What is the role of Lady Health Supervisor regarding supervision and ensuring 
uninterrupted supply of commodities for LHWs? 
• 
Is there any notified schedule for supervisory visits to the community-based workers? 
• 
What are your suggestions to improve the monitoring and supervision of child health 
services in your province? 
8. 
What do you think about the integration of the LHWs with other health programmes, local 
community, key persons, Community Based Organizations (CBOs) or elected representatives? 
• 
What is the level integration of LHWs, LHS and CMWs in management of Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea in children? 
• 
What role do they play for acceptance of health services provided by LHWs? Kindly give 
some examples about the support they support. 
• 
What is usefulness of local community liaison?  
9. 
What is your overall impression about the scope and scale of Pneumonia and Diarrhea case 
management by the LHSs and LHWs (diagnosis, treatment and referral services) in your province? 
• 
If you are asked to take measures for improvement of Pneumonia and Diarrhea case 
management services by LHSs and LHWs, what measures will you suggest at managerial, 
facility and community level?  
 
 
Guide for Unicef Team Interview 
Before starting interview, remember to: 
⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit  
⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of study objectives 
⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 
 
1-What measures have been taken to ensure that the existing national/provincial policies 
and guidelines are updated in line with global recommendations (World Health 
Organization (WHO)/Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD)) for 
management of diarrhea and pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan? 
a-Is there a Joint accountability framework and workplan with timelines under 
the stewardship of national and provincial Child Survival Groups? 
• 
Is there a Coordination mechanism in the selected province and at 
national/provincial levels? 
• 
What measures have you taken to ensure appropriate levels of service 
delivery for P&D commodities? 
• 
Is there any kind of technical support to national and provincial governments I 
aligning theses to GAPPD & in line with recommendations of 
landscape analysis? 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
93 
b- Do National, provincial, and district essential medicines and procurement lists 
include Amoxicillin DT, co-packaged LoORS & Zinc DT, ARI Timers, Pulse 
Oximeters and Oxygen? 
c- Is there any kind of technical support to national and provincial governments for 
updating  
management guidelines (IMNCI), essential medicines lists, Minimum Service 
Delivery Package (MSDP)? 
• 
Did you develop/print evidence-based briefing papers/policy notes on 
benefits of Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, co-packaged ORS and Zinc, Pulse 
Oximeters, ARI timer and oxygen in management of Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea? 
• 
 Do you have National & provincial consultations with child survival 
groups and other relevant stakeholders to review and endorse briefing 
papers/policy notes to help build consensus on the recommendations for 
strengthening of logistics system and updated EMLs & procurement lists? 
 
2-Has there been a translation of revised and updated pneumonia and diarrhea treatment 
guidelines into relevant action plans by all provincial/areas health departments in Pakistan? If 
yes: 
 
a-To what extent did the utilization of revised National Pneumonia & Diarrhea 
management/IMNCI guidelines help improve knowledge, skills, and capacities of 
Healthcare workers at national/provincial levels? 
• 
Technical assistance to draft the revised community IMNCI training 
manuals? 
• 
Dissemination of IMNCI Guidelines and training modules with the public 
and private sectors? 
• 
Has there been any kind of orientation on updated EMLs, MSDPs, and 
procurement lists 
b-Are concerned national, provincial, and district level policy and decision 
makers sensitized on necessary resource allocation for management of childhood 
pneumonia and diarrhea? 
c- 
3-In order to ensure availability of essential commodities (Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, co-
packaged ORS and Zinc, Oxygen, ARI Timers and Pulse Oximeters) for treatment of 
childhood pneumonia and diarrhea in Pakistan, can you please explain: 
 
• 
Logistics, procurement, and supply chain management systems updated and 
strengthened to include recommended commodities for pneumonia and diarrhea 
management? 
 
• 
Phased procurement and supply of pneumonia and diarrhea commodities 
for selected provinces/districts 
 
4-what measures are required to translate lessons learned from this project to other geographical 
scopes within Pakistan? 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
94 
• 
What actions are necessary to support 
and strengthen the DHIS2 and link it 
with LMIS?  
 
• 
What measures are necessary to improve advocacy for local production and 
manufacturing of these commodities? 
 
• 
How can Unicef, advocate with the government for adequate budgetary allocation, 
while increasing procurement of newly recommended commodities? 
 
• 
How can the capacity of heath service providers on health information, supply 
chain management and use of data collection tools be built/enhanced? 
 
 
Guide for Provincial DHIS Official 
Before starting interview, remember to: 
⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit  
⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of study objectives 
⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 
 
1 Can share something about routine MIS? What is the current status of DHIS? 
• 
What do you think about the sufficiency of DHIS tools for recording and reporting 
regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? If yes, 
• 
Do these reports provide adequate cover and indicate the shortage of commodities? 
• 
 If no, Do you have any other system? 
 
 
2 Have you made any decisions regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea on the 
basis of the reports generated from the district level?  f yes Kindly give some examples.? 
• 
How can the recording and reporting of services regarding management of 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea be improved? 
 
3 Now, we would like to know about the process of forecasting and quantification of 
medicines and supplies at your facility? 
Probes: 
• 
Is it based on burden of disease from the  catchment area or based on data from 
DHIS? 
• 
Are the supplies provided according to the demands submitted/ need based? If no, 
kindly explain reasons for under-supply. 
 
4 Kindly comment on whether the supply of new commodities like Zinc DT and Low 
Osmolarity ORS is according to the generated demand? 
• 
Have you or other staff member received any formal training on forecasting and 
quantification of medicines and supplies?  
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
95 
5 In your opinion, what is the use of DHIS in context of management of children suffering 
from Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
Probe: 
• 
Are you satisfied with the quality (accuracy of information, completeness and 
timeliness) of DHIS recording and reporting? If not, how can we improve it?   
• 
Does DHIS help keeping the record of referrals made in complicated cases? 
 
6 Do you think that current DHIS indicators sufficiently cover the data requirements for 
managing Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Do you suggest to include some indicators? 
• 
Are any indicators related to new commodities included in the DHIS? If yes, does the 
facility staff felt any difficulty in using the tools after these changes? 
• 
Can you comment on the capacities of staff on using DHIS tools? If there are any 
gaps, how can these be addressed? 
 
7 Has UNICEF P&D project provided any support to Government in strengthening of 
comprehensive supply chain management system including forecasting, procurement, 
distribution, real time stock maintenance, and warehousing involving different programmes 
and their linkage with DHIS? 
 
8 Has DHIS been updated to include any relevant pneumonia and diarrhea treatment 
/commodity indicators and linked with LMIS? 
 
9. Has revision of LHWs MIS tools for reporting on updated commodities for management of 
pneumonia and diarrhea taken place in line with GAPPD as per project requirement? 
 
10. Has the revision, updation and printing of DHIS tools and manuals and software in Sindh 
taken place? 
 
11. Kindly provide any suggestions for improving DHIS that would facilitate the management 
of pneumonia and diarrhea?   
 
 
 
 
CSG Member 
 
Before starting interview, remember to: 
⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit  
⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of evaluation objectives 
⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 
 
 
During the initial discussion to explain the evaluation, the interviewer and participant should 
have had the opportunity to introduce themselves and to make small talk to break the ice. You 
can begin by saying these words to the group of participants: 
 ‘As you know Pneumonia and Diarrhea are common causes of deaths among children under 
age 5. We are conducting a study to learn about of services being provided to treat and 
manage these diseases among children and would like to know your views in this regards. We 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
96 
will start when you are ready, will listen to your view points and ask few questions to clarify 
some of the things you would talk about.’ May we begin? 
 
The guideline contains multiple questions and each question is followed by a set of probes. 
Please let participants initiate the discussion and use probes only when certain concerns are not 
addressed by the group 
 
 
1. What is your role in CSG? What is the role of CSG?  
 
2. What has CSG quarterly meetings contributed in improving Under-5 childhood 
mortality and morbidity? any specific contribution in improving pneumonia and 
diarrhea services? 
 
3. What has the overall role of CSG been in improving overall Under-5 childhood 
mortality and morbidity? any specific role in making pneumonia and diarrhea services 
better? 
 
4. Do you believe that CSG has been meeting its objectives? What have been the 
challenges in this achieving these objectives? 
 
5. Does Child Survival Group play any sort of coordination mechanism role for 
management of diarrhea and pneumonia among under five children in Pakistan at 
national level?  
 
6. Have any interventions taken place under this Child Survival Group? 
 
7. In your opinion, how can CSG contribute in a more effective manner in improving 
pneumonia and diarrhea services? 
 
8. What support would CSG require in making this contribution from the Government? 
 
9. What support would CSG require in making this contribution from the development 
partners and donors? Has the support from Unicef been satisfactory? 
 
10. In your opinion what should be done to improve the quality of pneumonia and diarrhea 
services at various levels in the health system (policy, district and community levels)?  
 
 
Guides for Implementing Partners 
 
Before starting interview, remember to: 
⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit  
⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of evaluation objectives 
⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 
 
 
1 Do the national/provincial/ policies/strategies and guidelines incorporate the global 
recommendations for pneumonia and diarrhea? Are these guidelines being implemented at 
your facilities? 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
97 
2 Have the policies on community case management for pneumonia and diarrhea updated 
according to the global recommendations (World Health Organization (WHO)/Global Action 
Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea (GAPPD)? 
 
 
3 Has UNICEF provided any technical support to national and provincial governments for 
updating/revising the following in alignment with GAPPD: 
a. Child survival related policies/strategies in terms of updating of management 
guidelines (IMNCI)  
b. Essential medicines lists with inclusion of Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, LORS 
and Zinc 
c. Minimum Service Delivery Package (MSDP) 
i. Have these been endorsed by TWG, Child Survival and the 
Government through consensus? 
ii. Was there any orientation carried out?  
iii. Is it being implemented?  
 
4 Has UNICEF’s P&D project facilitated the Government in strengthening of logistics system 
and in updating the procurement lists (MSDP and PC-1s) including ARI Timers, Pulse 
Oximeters and Oxygen for appropriate levels of service delivery? 
d. Have these been endorsed by TWG, Child Survival and the Government 
through consensus? 
e. Was there any orientation carried out?  
f. Is it being implemented? Has the supply chain management system updated 
according to the required commodities?  
g. How is the Government ensuring supply of pneumonia & diarrhea 
commodities from DoH and district health offices downstream to facility 
levels? 
 
 
 
 
5 Has UNICEF P&D project provided any support in strengthening of comprehensive supply 
chain management system including forecasting, procurement, distribution, real time stock 
maintenance, and warehousing involving different programmes and their linkage with DHIS? 
 
 
6 UNICEF P&D project provided any technical assistance to DoH/DHIS cell for updating of 
DHIS software and tools and implementing recommendations for its linking with LMIS and 
for: 
h. Printing and dissemination of revised DHIS tools 
i. 
Orientation of master trainers (provincial level) and relevant health facility 
staff (selected district level) on revised DHIS tools 
 
7 What coordination mechanism exist for management of diarrhea and pneumonia among 
under five children in Pakistan at national level, e.g. Child Survival Groups, Technical 
Working Group?  
 
 
8.Are the community IMNCI training manuals revised? Who was responsible for their 
revision? Has UNICEF provided technical assistance for the revision?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
98 
c. Have these been endorsed by Technical Working Group, Child Survival Group 
or/and the Government through consensus? 
d. Was there any orientation carried out to endorse the revised community 
IMNCI Training Modules?  
 
9 Have the treatment protocols for pneumonia and diarrhea updated according to new 
recommendations (EML, IMNCI, MSDP and Procurement lists etc.)? 
d. Are job-aids, reporting tools and training material for healthcare providers 
revised accordingly? 
e. What plans are there for refresher training of health workers (facility and 
community) that will be an opportunity to introduce new treatment protocols?  
f. Has UNICEF facilitated the Government in the process?  
 
10. What are the structural and non-structural factors that affect policy change, its translation 
and subsequent implementation with reference to pneumonia and diarrhea commodities? 
 
11. How can the policy translation be achieved effectively?  
 
12.What are some of the barriers that are hindering the policy level processes? 
 
13. What are some of the facilitators that act as a catalyst for the desired change? 
 
14. Any suggestions for improvement in UNICEF P&D Project? 
 
 
 
PPA Member 
 
Before starting interview, remember to: 
⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit  
⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of evaluation objectives 
⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 
 
 
During the initial discussion to explain the evaluation, the interviewer and participant should 
have had the opportunity to introduce themselves and to make small talk to break the ice. You 
can begin by saying these words to the group of participants: 
 ‘As you know Pneumonia and Diarrhea are common causes of deaths among children under 
age 5. We are conducting a study to learn about of services being provided to treat and 
manage these diseases among children and would like to know your views in this regards. We 
will start when you are ready, will listen to your view points and ask few questions to clarify 
some of the things you would talk about.’ May we begin? 
 
The guideline contains multiple questions and each question is followed by a set of probes. 
Please let participants initiate the discussion and use probes only when certain concerns are not 
addressed by the group 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
99 
Q1 a) What is your role in PPA? What has PPA’s role been in improving Under-5 childhood 
mortality and morbidity? Any particular improvement in treating pneumonia and diarrhea? 
 
b) Has PPA conducted or contributed to any study related to Under-5 child mortality and 
morbidity? Any particular research on pneumonia and diarrhea? 
 
c) In your opinion how can PPA make a significant contribution in improving pneumonia and 
diarrhea services? 
 
d) What support would PPA require in making this contribution from the Government? 
 
e) What support would PPA require in making this contribution from the development partners 
and donors? 
 
2-I‘d like to know about main childhood related illnesses diagnosed in your clinic/hospital. 
Can you please comment on the caseload of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
Probes: 
• 
About what proportion of children (less than 5 years) is brought to your clinic/hospital 
that suffer from pneumonia and diarrhea? 
• 
What is your view about the major causes of spread of these diseases and how can this be 
prevented? 
• 
Do you think male and female children equally seek treatment for these illnesses? Do you 
think any disparity exists when parents seek treatment for their sons and daughters? 
 
 
3- I would like to know about your skills/competence for managing childhood illnesses? Can 
you please tell us about any training(s) received since you have been practicing for dealing 
such diseases? In your view, what can be done to improve quality of training? 
 
 
4- Now, I would like to discuss your awareness about protocols and guidelines (like IMNCI 
guidelines) for managing pneumonia and diarrhea in children at your clinic/hospital. Are these 
protocols and guidelines followed? 
Probes: 
• 
Can you please explain their usefulness in diagnosing and treating childhood illness? 
• 
If no such specific protocols/guidelines are available and being implemented, can 
you please comment on the reasons? 
 
 
5- Now, we will like to know about the diagnosis of pneumonia in your clinic/hospital? Please 
tell us how do you diagnose children suffering from Pneumonia?  
Probes: 
• 
Do you think any particular equipment (ARI Timers, Oxygen cylinders and Pulse 
Oximeters) is essential for the diagnosis of pneumonia? If there is any deficiency, 
please explain reasons for shortage of equipment. 
• 
How commonly antibiotics are used for the treatment of pneumonia? 
• 
Do you think there is any role and advantage of using oxygen in treating 
pneumonia? Is it being used at your clinic/hospital? If not, can you explain the 
reasons?  
• 
In your opinion, how deficiencies in equipment can be address? 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
100 
 
6- Can you please tell us how do you manage children suffering from Diarrhea at your 
clinic/hospital?  
Probes: 
• 
How do you diagnose childhood diarrhea on the basis of severity of illness and do you 
differentiate it from dysentery? 
• 
What options do you have to treat childhood diarrhea with oral medications? 
• 
Is there any role of oral Zinc and low Osmolarity ORS in its treatment? If so, what 
type of Zinc formulation do you usually prescribe? 
• 
Do you think there is any advantage of using Low Osmolarity ORS compared to 
regular ORS in treating Diarrhea?  
• 
What do you think is the reason for their acceptability/ non-acceptability? 
• 
Do you have new commodities like Zinc DT and Low Osmolarity ORS in your 
clinic/hospital? 
• 
If yes, do you prefer prescribing new commodities like Zinc DT and Low Osmolarity 
ORS in your clinic/hospital over the other ones? 
• 
Do you think there is a difference in results in recovery process using new 
commodities as compared to using syrup and regular ORS? 
• 
In your opinion, what is the beneficiaries’ reaction to using dispersible tablets and LO 
ORS? Do you think they are acceptable? 
 
7-Now, I would like you to comment on the cost of treating Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
 
• 
In your opinion, does cost play a significant influence over the choice of medicines 
prescribed and service provider? 
• 
If you are prescribing new commodities, do you think there has been any change in 
cost of treatment per patient?  
• 
How commonly do you prescribe medicines related to the treatment of Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea to be bought from market in case of its stock-out? 
 
8- In your opinion what should be done to improve the quality of pneumonia and diarrhea 
services in the entire health system? 
 
 
INTERVIEW GUIDE FOR DISTRICT MANAGERS 
CEO-DHA/EDOH/DHO 
Before starting interview, remember to: 
⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit  
⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of evaluation objectives 
⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 
1. 
First I’d like to ask you about the provincial guidelines/policies to address the challenges 
related to child health services.  
• 
What autonomy district health department/authority has got to make its own policies?  
2. 
Do you have your district strategic or operational health plans? Do these plans include district 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
101 
targets for child health services, particularly management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea?  
• 
What is the situation of services for Pneumonia and Diarrhea in your district? 
• 
What initiatives district has taken for improvement of these services? 
3. 
What is the status of human resource related to Pneumonia and Diarrhea, in primary level 
health facilities in your district? 
• 
What are care providers related issues for delivery of these services? 
• 
What initiatives government has taken to retain the staff on health facilities?  
• 
How do you address the absenteeism?  
• 
If not, what are the reasons for unavailability of staff?  
• 
In your opinion, how can situation of HR improve at public sector health facilities? 
4. 
We are interested to learn about community-based healthcare providers (LHW/CMW).  
• 
What is their role in provision of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services, 
regarding diagnosis, treatment and referral?  
• 
What is the quality of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management services provided by 
them? 
• 
What are your suggestions to further improve their services? 
5. 
What do you think about the competence level of staff at primary level facilities and 
community based staff to manage diarrhea and pneumonia in children? 
• 
What is your routine mechanism for in-service training and capacity building of these 
staff in your district? 
• 
Do you have any in-service training programme for staff at primary level health 
facilities and community? 
• 
Any specific training for Pneumonia and Diarrhea care provider, like IMNCI or any 
other training? 
• 
If you don’t have in built mechanism of in-service training in your district what else 
you do for this purpose?   
6. 
What is the current status of facility resources (building, equipment and supplies) for child 
health services, particularly Pneumonia and Diarrhea?  
• 
Are sufficient amount of antibiotics (particularly Amoxicillin, L-ORS and Zinc) 
provided to the primary health facilities and community-based service providers? 
• 
What are the common reasons for stock-outs of these medicines and supplies? 
• 
Are any specific equipment, like ARI timers and pulse oximeters, provided to the 
service providers for better managing cases of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
• 
Are all your primary level health facilities provided with oxygen supply for managing 
childhood Pneumonia? 
• 
In your opinion, how can the availability of medicines, supplies and equipment be 
ensured at the primary health facilities and the community-based workers? 
7. 
Can you throw some light on your routine MIS? What is the current status of DHIS?   
• 
What do you think about the sufficiency of DHIS tools for recording and reporting 
regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
• 
Do these reports provide adequate cover and indicate the shortage of commodities? 
• 
Have you made any decisions regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea on 
the basis of the reports generated at district level? Kindly give some examples. 
• 
How can the recording and reporting of services regarding management of Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea be improved? 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
102 
8. 
What are your inbuilt mechanisms for monitoring and supervision of facility and community 
based staff?  
• 
What is the current supervision policy? At which level, is responsibility of supervision 
fixed? 
• 
Is the supervision integrated or service specific e.g. for EPI, CMWs, LHWs, etc.? 
• 
Is there any notified district schedule for supervisory visits to the primary level 
facilities and community based workers? 
• 
What are your suggestions to improve the monitoring and supervision of child health 
services in your district? 
9. 
How frequently do you conduct evaluation to monitor the achievement of your facilities?  
• 
Have you generated or published any report/s of your evaluations. Kindly give some 
examples.  
10. Do you have liaison with the local community, key persons, Community Based Organizations 
(CBOs) or elected representatives of the district? 
• 
What role do they play for acceptance of health services provided by you? Kindly give 
some examples about the support they support. 
• 
What is usefulness of local community liaison?  
11. What is your user-charges/fee policy for services, particularly services of pneumonia and 
diarrhea?   
• 
What are your suggestions to minimize the cost as a barrier for underutilization of 
these services? 
12. What is your impression of current utilization of Pneumonia and Diarrhea management 
services at primary level health facilities and in the community? How do you rate it as under, 
normal or over utilization? 
• 
If you are asked to take measures at various levels for improvement of Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea management services, what measures will you suggest at managerial, facility 
and community level?  
 
 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
103 
INTERVIEW GUIDES OF DISTRICT IRMNCH COORDINATOR 
District IRMNCH Coordinator 
Before starting interview, remember to : 
⇒ Introduce yourself and explain purpose of visit  
⇒ Get formal consent for the interview and provide brief of evaluation objectives 
⇒ Ask for permission for audio recording of the interview 
10. First I’d like to ask you about the role of LHWs in reducing morbidity and mortality associated with 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children. 
• 
What are the policies and guidelines for LHW Programme to deliver child health services? 
• 
In your opinion, how adequate are these policies/guidelines to ensure the availability of 
services, particularly for the management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
11. To what extent the programme is sustainable after regularization of LHWs and provincilization of the 
programme 
• 
Probe about financial sustainability of the programme in relation to further expansion and 
improvement of existing quality of services  
12. What is the status/coverage of LHWs in your district? 
• 
Is required number of LHWs present to cover your entire district? If not, what are the reasons 
for unavailability of LHWs? 
• 
In your opinion, how availability of LHWs can be improved in your district? 
13. What do you think about the competence of LHWs to manage diarrhea and pneumonia in children at 
household level and for referral of complicated cases? 
• 
What is routine mechanism for in-service training and capacity building of LHWs in your 
district? 
• 
Is there any specific training for prevention and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea, like 
IMCI or any other training? 
• 
If you don’t have in built mechanism of in-service training in your district, what else have 
you done for this purpose?   
14. What is the current status of availability of commodities and equipment for child health services, 
particularly for diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea?  
• 
Are sufficient amount of antipyretics, antibiotics (particularly Amoxicillin), L-ORS and Zinc 
are provided to the LHWs?  
• 
In what formulation are these commodities usually provided? Probe for DT?  
• 
What are the common reasons for stock-outs of these commodities? 
• 
Are any specific equipment, like ARI timers/pulse oximeter, provided to the LHWs for better 
managing the cases of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
• 
In your opinion, how can the uninterrupted supply of these commodities be ensured for 
LHWs? 
15. Can you throw some light on LHW-MIS?   
• 
What do you think about the sufficiency of LHW-MIS tools for recording and reporting 
regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
• 
Do these reports provide adequate cover and indicate the shortage of commodities? 
• 
Have you made any decisions regarding management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea on the 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
104 
basis of the reports generated at district level? Kindly give some examples. 
• 
How can the recording and reporting of LHWs’ services be improved? 
16. What are your in built mechanisms for monitoring and supervision of LHWs?  
• 
What is the current supervision policy? At which level responsibility of supervision is fixed? 
• 
Is the supervision integrated or service specific e.g. for EPI, CMWs, LHWs, etc.? 
• 
What is the role of Lady Health Supervisor regarding supervision and ensuring uninterrupted 
supply of commodities for LHWs? 
• 
Is there any notified district schedule for supervisory visits to the community-based workers? 
• 
What are your suggestions to improve the monitoring and supervision of child health services 
in your district? 
17. What do you think about the integration of the LHWs with other health programmes, local 
community, key persons, Community Based Organizations (CBOs) or elected representatives? 
• 
What is the level integration of LHWs, LHS and CMWs in management of Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea in children? 
• 
What role do they play for acceptance of health services provided by LHWs? Kindly give 
some examples about the support they support. 
• 
What is usefulness of local community liaison?  
18. What is your overall impression about the scope and scale of Pneumonia and Diarrhea case 
management by the LHWs (diagnosis, treatment and referral services) in your district? 
• 
If you are asked to take measures for improvement of Pneumonia and Diarrhea case 
management services by LHWs, what measures will you suggest at managerial, facility and 
community level?  
 
 
INTERVIEW GUIDE FOR FACILITY IN-CHARGE (BHU & RHC) 
 
CHECKLIST FOR AVAILABILITY OF COMMODITIES FOR MANAGEMENT OF < 
5 PNEUMONIA & DIARRHEA CASES 
A 
Trainings/Refreshers for Management of Pneumonia & Diarrhea   
(Write the number of staff who received these trainings)  
 
Staff trained during 
past 24 months 
No 
of 
Staff 
IM
CI 
ARI  
CD
D 
Breast Feeding/ 
Micronutrient 
Deficiency 
EPI/          
Cold Chain 
Management 
A1 
Consultant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A2 
SMO/MO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A3 
WMO 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A4 
Staff Nurse 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A5 
Health Technician 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IMCI (Integrated Management of Childhood Diseases) 
ARI (Acute Respiratory Infection) 
CDD (Control of Diarrhoeal Diseases) 
EPI (Extended Programme On Immunization) 
 
B 
Standard Guidelines for Diagnosis & Management of Pneumonia & Diarrhea 
(Mark ü for available and not available) 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
105 
 
Guidelines 
Available 
Not Available 
B1 
Guidelines for Pneumonia/ARI case 
management 
 
 
B2 
Guidelines for Diarrhea/Dysentery Case 
Management 
 
 
B3 
Guidelines on Storage of Drugs 
 
 
B4 
Guidelines for Cold Chain Management 
 
 
B5 
EPI Guidelines 
 
 
 
C 
Essentials for Pneumonia & Diarrhea Case Management 
(Mark ü for yes or No) 
 
Commodities 
Available 
Functional 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
C1 
Oxygen cylinder  
 
 
 
 
C2 
Oxygen flow meter 
 
 
 
 
C3 
Pulse oximeter 
 
 
 
 
C4 
ARI timer 
 
 
 
 
C5 
Ambo bag (For Child) 
 
 
 
 
C6 
Nebulizer 
 
 
 
 
C7 
ILR to maintain cold chain 
 
 
 
 
C8 
Supplies to mix and dispense 
Low-Osmolarity ORS (e.g. 
cup) 
 
 
 
 
C9 
Source of clean drinking water 
 
 
 
 
C10 
Ambulance  
 
 
 
 
• 
ILR (Ice Lined Refrigerator) 
• 
LORS (Low-Osmolarity Oral Rehydration Solution) 
 
D 
Drugs for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Treatment 
(Mark ü for available and not available status of drugs but for stock outs write the 
number of months for which medicine was not available) 
 
Drugs for Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea Treatment 
Current status 
Stock Outs *         
(July 2018 - June 
2019) 
Available 
Not 
Available/Expire
d 
D1 
Syrup Amoxicillin  
 
 
 
D2 
Amoxicillin Dispersible Tablets 
(DT) 
 
 
 
D3 
Injection Amoxicillin  
 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
106 
D 
Drugs for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Treatment 
(Mark ü for available and not available status of drugs but for stock outs write the 
number of months for which medicine was not available) 
 
Drugs for Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea Treatment 
Current status 
Stock Outs *         
(July 2018 - June 
2019) 
Available 
Not 
Available/Expire
d 
D4 
Pneumococcal Vaccine  
 
 
 
D5 
Syrup Zinc  
 
 
 
D6 
Zinc Dispersible Tablet (DT*) 
 
 
 
D7 
LORS packets 
 
 
 
D8 
LORS-Zinc Co-packaging 
 
 
 
D9 
Ringer lactate Solution 
 
 
 
D10 
0.45% Normal Saline/ 
Dextrose Saline 
 
 
 
• 
DT (Dispersible tablet) 
• 
Note: Please check the Stock register (medicines/supplies) for stock outs and write number 
of months for mentioned period 
 
E 
Record keeping and Reporting (DHIS) 
(Mark ü for yes or No) 
 
Material 
Available 
Updated 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
E1 
OPD Register 
 
 
 
 
E2 
In-patients Register (RHC) 
 
 
 
 
E3 
Stock Register (Medicine/Supplies) 
 
 
 
 
E4 
Stock Register 
(Equipment/Furniture) 
 
 
 
 
E5 
PHC Facility Monthly Report 
Form 
 
 
 
 
E6 
Procedures Manual for DHIS/MIS 
 
 
 
 
• 
OPD (Out-patient Department) 
• 
RHC (Rural Health Centre) 
• 
PHC (Primary Health Care) 
• 
DHIS (District Health Information System) 
 
1. I‘d like to know about main childhood related illnesses in the catchment area of your 
facility. Can you please comment on the caseload of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
Probes: 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
107 
i. 
About what proportion of children (less than 5 years) is brought to this facility that 
suffers from Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
ii. 
What type of treatment approach or professional help is commonly preferred in the 
community for these diseases (e.g. self-treatment, traditional healer, homeopathic, 
allopathic)? 
 
2. I would like to know about the skill/competence of the staff at your facility for managing 
childhood illnesses? Can you please tell us about any training(s) received during the 
service for dealing such diseases?  
Probes: 
i. 
What in your view is the importance and benefits of in-service trainings for 
enhancing skill/competence to manage childhood illness, particularly Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea? 
ii. 
When was the last time you or any of your staff member received such training? If 
no, what could be the reason for not arranging such trainings?  
iii. 
Who usually arrange such trainings (like Health Department, development partners 
e.g. UNICEF or pharmaceutical companies)?  
iv. 
Are these trainings conducted at the facility or some outside venue? What is your 
preference for the venue of such trainings and why? 
v. 
What deficiencies did you notice in these trainings? In your view, how can these be 
improved? 
vi. 
If you have received training, did any refresher follow it? If no, what could be the 
reason for not providing refresher training?  
 
3. Now, I would like to know about the use of protocols and guidelines (like IMCI 
guidelines) for managing pneumonia and diarrhea in children at your facility. What are 
these protocols and guidelines, kindly explain?  
Probes: 
i. 
Can you please explain their usefulness in diagnosing and treating childhood 
illness? 
ii. 
If no such specific protocols/guidelines are available, can you please comment on 
the reasons? 
 
4. Now, we will like to know about the diagnosis and management of Pneumonia at your 
facility? Please tell us how do you diagnose children suffering from Pneumonia?  
Probes: 
i. 
How do you diagnose and classify Pneumonia on the basis of its severity and does 
its treatment also varies accordingly? Kindly explain. 
ii. 
What is your prescription practice? 
iii. 
Do you think any particular equipment is essential for the diagnosis of pneumonia? 
If there is any deficiency, please explain reasons for shortage of equipment. 
iv. 
How commonly antibiotics are used for treatment of Pneumonia? 
v. 
Have you ever heard of any dispersible (soluble in water) antibiotic tablet? If so, do 
you perceive any advantage of dispersible tablets over syrups? 
vi. 
In your opinion, what is the perception of the community regarding use of 
dispersible tablets? 
vii. 
Do you think there is any role and advantage of using oxygen in treating 
pneumonia? Is it being used at your facility? If not, can you explain the reasons?  
viii. 
In your opinion, how deficiencies in equipment and medicines can be addressed? 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
108 
ix. 
In case of complicated Pneumonia cases, what referral mechanisms exist for 
transferring these children to higher-level health facilities?  
 
5. Can you please tell us how do you manage children suffering from Diarrhea at your 
facility?  
Probes: 
i. 
How do you diagnose childhood diarrhea and do you differentiate it from 
dysentery? 
ii. 
Now focusing on diarrhea, do you classify patients on the basis of severity of 
dehydration? If so, how? 
iii. 
What options do you have to treat childhood diarrhea with oral medications? What 
is your prescription practice? 
iv. 
Is there any role of oral Zinc in its treatment? If so, what type of Zinc formulation is 
usually provided at your facility? 
v. 
Have you ever heard of any dispersible (soluble in water) tablets of Zinc? If so, do 
you perceive any advantage of dispersible tablets over syrups? 
vi. 
In your opinion, how would community take the idea of using dispersible tablets? 
vii. 
Do you think there is any advantage of using Low Osmolarity ORS compared to 
regular ORS in treating Diarrhea?  
viii. 
Is your facility provided with Low Osmolarity ORS? If no, please state reasons? 
ix. 
In case of complications, what referral mechanisms exist for transferring these 
children to higher-level health facilities?  
 
6. Please tell us about any stock-out of aforementioned medicines that are used for treating 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea?  
Probes: 
i. 
How common are these stock-outs? Kindly comment on the medicines that suffer 
from stock-out more frequently. 
ii. 
How do you treat these children, when there is stock-out of medicines at the facility? 
iii. 
In your opinion, what are the reasons for these stock-outs? 
iv. 
Do you have suggestions for ensuring un-interrupted supply of these medicines and 
commodities? 
 
 
7. Now, we would like to know about the process of forecasting and quantification of 
medicines and supplies at your facility? 
Probes: 
i. 
Is it based on burden of disease in your catchment area or based on data from 
DHIS? 
ii. 
Are the supplies provided according to the demands submitted? If no, kindly explain 
reasons for under-supply. 
iii. 
Have you or other staff member received any formal training on forecasting and 
quantification of medicines and supplies?  
iv. 
What do you suggest for improving the process of forecasting and quantification to 
overcome stock-outs? 
 
8. In your opinion, what is the use of DHIS in context of management of children suffering 
from Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
Probe: 
i. 
Are you satisfied with the quality (accuracy of information, completeness and 
timeliness) of DHIS recording and reporting? If not, how can we improve it?   
ii. 
Do you find any duplication of reporting (like Disease Surveillance System and 
DHIS) that may affect the decision-making? 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
109 
iii. 
Does DHIS help keeping the record of referrals made in complicated cases? 
iv. 
Do you think that current DHIS indicators sufficiently cover the data requirements 
for managing Pneumonia and Diarrhea? Do you suggest to include some 
indicators? 
v. 
Can you comment on the capacities of your staff on using DHIS tools? If there are 
any gaps, how can these be addressed? 
 
9. Now, coming to the role of community health workers in management of Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea, particularly Lady Health Workers (LHWs) and Community Midwives (CMWs), 
what is their importance in reducing morbidity and mortality associated with these 
diseases?  
Probes: 
i. 
Is there any network of these workers associated with your facility? 
ii. 
Are these workers fully equipped and have been provided with sufficient supplies to 
perform their role in management of these illness? 
iii. 
How their role can be further strengthened?  
iv. 
Do you find any gap in linkages between these workers and public/private health 
facilities? What are your suggestions to improve this situation? 
 
10. Now, I would like you to comment on the cost of treating Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
Probes: 
i. 
In your opinion, does cost play a significant influence over the choice of medicines 
prescribed and service provider? 
ii. 
 How commonly do you prescribe a medicine to be bought from market in case of its 
stock-out? 
iii. 
What do you do in case of a non-affording patient? Do you prescribe inexpensive 
medicines?  
 
11. I want to know, if you have established any liaison with any or more public health 
facilities for referral? How does health facility staff generally behave with your referred 
cases of severe pneumonia and diarrhea? 
i. 
Do you have linkages with higher level facilities? (e.g. RHC,THQH,DHQH & tertiary 
care hospital) 
ii. 
What is reported experience of patients referred to these facilities? Do they generally 
receive supportive and considerate treatment? Give some examples. 
iii. 
How are patients transported to referral facilities and who pays for transport 
charges? Do they avail facility or community ambulance services? 
iv. 
Do you keep record of referrals and feedbacks? 
 
12. What is the usual monitoring mechanism of outreach services? 
i. 
Describe working relationship between LHWs and facilities 
ii. 
Do officials (e.g. DDOH, DOH or EDOH) usually make informed or surprised 
monitoring visits?   
iii. 
Do they provide supportive or traditional supervision? Do you get appreciation for 
good work?    
 
13. I’d now like to ask you to summarize your role in the provision of pneumonia and diarrhea 
services? What else do you think you need to improve the quality of pneumonia and 
diarrhea services at community level?   
i. 
To what extent are you satisfied with your services? If not, why not? 
ii. 
What must be done to improve the quality of pneumonia and diarrhea services at 
community level? 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GUIDE FOR FOCUS GROUP DISCUSSION (FGDs) WITH  
COMMUNITY HEALTH WORKERS (LHWs, LHSs) 
 
Name of District 
  
Name of Health Facility 
  
Number of Participants 
(LHWs and LHSs) 
  
Date 
  
During the initial discussion to explain the evaluation, the interviewer and participant 
should have had the opportunity to introduce themselves and to make small talk to break 
the ice. You can begin by saying these words to the group of participants: 
 ‘As you know Pneumonia and Diarrhea are common causes of deaths among children 
under age 5. We are conducting a study to learn about of services being provided LHWs and 
LHSs to prevent and control these diseases among children and would like to know your 
views in this regards. We will start when you are ready, will listen to your view points and 
ask few questions to clarify some of the things you would talk about.’ May we begin? 
The guideline contains multiple questions and each question is followed by a set of 
probes. Please let participants initiate the discussion and use probes only when certain 
concerns are not addressed by the group. 
Disease burden or cases of pneumonia and diarrhea 
1. I’d like to ask you a little bit about your own perceptions about estimated number of cases 
of pneumonia and diarrhea.  
Probes:  
i. 
Average cases of pneumonia and diarrhea LHWs dealt daily/weekly/monthly.  
ii. 
Do you get sufficient time to deal with pneumonia & diarrhea cases, in addition to 
your other responsibilities? 
Trainings and skills to handle pneumonia and diarrhea 
2. Do you have sufficient knowledge & skill to handle cases of pneumonia and diarrhea?  
Probes:  
i. 
Have you received induction & on job trainings (e.g. IMCI) regarding pneumonia and 
diarrhea? 
ii. 
How much time has passed since you received last training/refresher? 
iii. 
Did you find trainings and refreshers useful? If not- why not? Any suggestion? 
Availability of treatment protocols/guidelines 
3. Do you have WHO treatment and referral guideline for pneumonia and diarrhea in the 
form charts, posters or booklets?  
Probe:  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
111 
i. 
Did you receive any audio-visual and pictorial material related to pneumonia and 
diarrhea? 
ii. 
Do you use these materials for awareness raising of the community, especially 
mothers of children under 5 years? 
Availability of sufficient supplies for management of pneumonia and diarrhea 
4. Do you have sufficient medicines and supplies for management of pneumonia and 
diarrhea? 
Probe:  
i. 
E.g. amoxicillin, antipyretic, zinc, LORS, ARI timer, thermometer, dispersible 
tablets  
Case management of pneumonia and diarrhea 
5. How comfortable do you feel in handling a case of pneumonia or diarrhea at your health 
house or during home visits? 
Probe: 
i. 
Can you detect danger signs for referral?  
ii. 
Did you receive any training to detect danger signs of pneumonia and diarrhea?  
iii. 
Do you know how to classify pneumonia and diarrhea by using WHO guidelines? How 
frequently do you use these guidelines 
iv. 
Can you describe home remedies commonly used? 
Challenges in case handling 
6. What challenges do you face while managing cases of pneumonia & diarrhea in the 
community? 
Probe:  
i. 
Do you face any challenge with respect to your skill and knowledge, and feel the need 
for more training?  
ii. 
Do you have sufficient supplies and equipment according to the need?  
iii. 
Do you suffer from lack of self- motivation? If yes- why? 
 
Health facility liaison and referral support 
7. Have you established any liaison with any or more public health facilities for referral? 
How does health facility staff generally behave with your referred cases of severe 
pneumonia and diarrhea? 
Probe:  
v. 
Do you have linkages with higher level facilities? (e.g. RHC,THQH,DHQH & tertiary 
care hospital) 
vi. 
What is reported experience of patients referred to these facilities? Do they generally 
receive supportive and considerate treatment? Give some examples. 
vii. 
How are patients transported to referral facilities and who pays for transport 
charges? Do they avail facility or community ambulance services? 
viii. 
Do you keep record of referrals and feedbacks? 
 
Liaison with other Community Health Workers   
8. Do you have any formal or informal liaison with other community health workers (CHWs) 
in your catchment area? 
Probe:  
i. 
Do they belong to NGO or public sector organization?  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
112 
ii. 
Do you consider their role supportive/productive in the management of pneumonia 
and diarrhea? 
 
Coordination and Monitoring Mechanisms  
9. What is the usual coordination and monitoring mechanism of outreach services? 
Probe:  
iv. 
Describe the coordination mechanisms and working relationship between LHWs and 
LHSs and other departments? 
v. 
Do officials (e.g. DDOH, DOH or EDOH) usually make informed or surprised 
monitoring visits?   
vi. 
Do they provide supportive or traditional supervision? Do you get appreciation for 
good work?    
 
Case reporting and documentation 
10. How pneumonia and diarrhea cases are routinely recorded and reported? 
Probe:  
i. 
What is the frequency of reporting?   
ii. 
Where these reports are sent? Are they entered in DHIS?  
iii. 
Do you receive feedback from health authorities? 
iv. 
Do health authorities use your data for managing supplies and improving quality of 
services? 
 
Community behavior and response 
11. What key challenges and constraints do you face  regarding community behaviour? 
Probe:  
i. 
Do majority of clients like receiving drugs or prefer home remedies? Does the 
beneficiaries prefer DTs over syrups or vice versa for treatment of pneumonia and 
diarrhoea?  
ii. 
Do you face any resistance or displeasure during your home visits?   
iii. 
Do you feel any security threat while working? 
iv. 
Do the community respect you for your role and services? 
 
Social beliefs and taboos 
12. What is the general level of awareness about health issues among the local community?  
Probe:  
i. 
Do you feel cultural beliefs and practices could be one reason for not seeking proper 
treatment for pneumonia and diarrhea? If yes, please explain.  
ii. 
Are there taboos regarding diet for children suffering from diarrhea and pneumonia? 
If yes, give examples. 
iii. 
Do you think, raising awareness level of the community can improve utilization of 
services for pneumonia and diarrhea at community and facility level 
 
Suggestions for improvement of services 
13. I’d now like to ask you to summarize your role in the provision of pneumonia and diarrhea 
services? What else do you think you need to improve the quality of pneumonia and 
diarrhea services at community level?   
Midterm Evaluation Report 
113 
Probe:  
iii. 
Do you agree with your role as agent of change in provision of health services at 
community? Please describe your experience in this regard.  
iv. 
To what extent are you satisfied with your services? If not much satisfied, why not? 
v. 
What must be done to improve the quality of pneumonia and diarrhea services at 
community level? 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
114 
FGDs GUIDE FOR GENERAL PRACTITIONERS 
 
 
Name of District 
  
Number of Participants  
  
Date 
  
During the initial discussion to explain the evaluation, the interviewer and participant 
should have had the opportunity to introduce themselves and to make small talk to break 
the ice. You can begin by saying these words to the group of participants: 
 ‘As you know Pneumonia and Diarrhea are common causes of deaths among children 
under age 5. We are conducting a study to learn about of services being provided to treat 
and manage these diseases among children and would like to know your views in this 
regards. We will start when you are ready, will listen to your view points and ask few 
questions to clarify some of the things you would talk about.’ May we begin? 
The guideline contains multiple questions and each question is followed by a set of 
probes. Please let participants initiate the discussion and use probes only when certain 
concerns are not addressed by the group. 
 
 
 
CHECKLIST FOR AVAILABILITY OF COMMODITIES FOR MANAGEMENT OF < 
5 PNEUMONIA & DIARRHEA CASES 
 
A 
Trainings/Refreshers for Management of Pneumonia & Diarrhea   
 
No of trainings received 
during past 24 months 
IM
CI 
ARI  
CD
D 
Breast Feeding/ 
Micronutrient 
Deficiency 
EPI/          
Cold Chain 
Management 
A1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IMCI (Integrated Management of Childhood Diseases) 
ARI (Acute Respiratory Infection) 
CDD (Control of Diarrhoeal Diseases) 
EPI (Extended Programme on Immunization) 
 
B 
Standard Guidelines for Diagnosis & Management of Pneumonia & Diarrhea 
(Mark ü for available and not available) 
 
Guidelines 
Available 
Not Available 
B1 
Guidelines for Pneumonia/ARI case 
management 
 
 
B2 
Guidelines for Diarrhea/Dysentery Case 
Management 
 
 
B3 
Guidelines on Storage of Drugs 
 
 
B4 
Guidelines for Cold Chain Management 
 
 
B5 
EPI Guidelines 
 
 
 
C 
Essentials for Pneumonia & Diarrhea Case Management 
(Mark ü for yes or No) 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
115 
 
Commodities 
Available 
Functional 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
C1 
Oxygen cylinder  
 
 
 
 
C2 
Oxygen flow meter 
 
 
 
 
C3 
Pulse oximeter 
 
 
 
 
C4 
ARI timer  
 
 
 
 
C5 
Ambo bag (For Child) 
 
 
 
 
C6 
Nebulizer 
 
 
 
 
C7 
ILR to maintain cold chain 
 
 
 
 
C8 
Others 
 
 
 
 
C9 
Supplies to mix and dispense 
ORS (e.g. cup) 
 
 
 
 
C10 
Source of clean drinking water 
 
 
 
 
C11 
Ambulance  
 
 
 
 
• 
ILR (Ice Lined Refrigerator) 
• 
ORS (Oral Rehydration Solution) 
 
D 
Drugs for Pneumonia and Diarrhea Treatment 
(Mark ü for available and not available status of drugs but for stock outs write the 
number of months for which medicine was not available) 
 
Drugs for Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea Treatment 
Current status 
Stock Outs *         
(July 2018 - June 
2019) 
Available 
Not 
Available/Expire
d 
D1 
Syrup Amoxicillin  
 
 
 
D2 
Amoxicillin Dispersible Tablets 
(DT) 
 
 
 
D3 
Injection Amoxicillin  
 
 
 
D4 
Pneumococcal Vaccine  
 
 
 
D5 
Syrup Zinc  
 
 
 
D6 
Zinc Dispersible Tablet (DT*) 
 
 
 
D7 
Low osmolarity ORS packets 
 
 
 
D8 
LORS-Zinc Co-packaging 
 
 
 
D9 
Ringer lactate Solution 
 
 
 
D10 
0.45% Normal Saline/ 
Dextrose Saline 
 
 
 
• 
DT (Dispersible tablet) 
• 
Note: Please check the Stock register (medicines/supplies) for stock outs and write number 
of months for mentioned period 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
116 
 
E 
Record keeping and Reporting ( 
(Mark ü for yes or No) 
 
Material 
Available 
Updated 
Yes 
No 
Yes 
No 
E1 
OPD Register 
 
 
 
 
E2 
In-patients Register 
 
 
 
 
E3 
Stock Register (Medicine/Supplies) 
 
 
 
 
E4 
Stock Register 
(Equipment/Furniture) 
 
 
 
 
E5 
Facility Monthly Report Form 
 
 
 
 
• 
OPD (Out-patient Department) 
1. I‘d like to know about main childhood related illnesses in your catchment area. Can you 
please comment on the caseload of Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
Probes: 
i. 
About what proportion of children (less than 5 years) is brought to your clinic that 
suffer from Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
ii. 
What is your view about the major causes of spread of these diseases in your 
community and how can this be prevented? 
iii. 
What type of treatment approach or professional help is commonly preferred in the 
community for these diseases (e.g. self-treatment, traditional healer, homeopathic, 
allopathic – public or private)? 
 
2. I would like to know about your skills/competence for managing childhood illnesses? Can 
you please tell us about any training(s) received since you have been practicing for dealing 
such diseases?  
Probes: 
i. 
What in your view is the importance and benefits of in-service trainings for 
enhancing skill/competence to manage childhood illness, particularly Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea? 
ii. 
When was the last time you received such training? If no, what could be the reason 
for not arranging such trainings?  
iii. 
Who usually arrange such trainings (like Health Department, development partners 
or pharmaceutical companies)?  
iv. 
What is your preference for the venue of such trainings and why? 
v. 
What deficiencies did you notice in these trainings? In your view, how can these be 
improved? 
vi. 
If you have received training, did any refresher follow it? If no, what could be the 
reason for not providing refresher training?  
 
3. Now, I would like to know about the use of protocols and guidelines (like IMCI 
guidelines) for managing pneumonia and diarrhea in children at your clinic. What are these 
protocols and guidelines, kindly explain?  
Probes: 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
117 
i. 
Can you please explain their usefulness in diagnosing and treating childhood 
illness? 
ii. 
If no such specific protocols/guidelines are available, can you please comment on 
the reasons? 
 
4. Now, we will like to know about the diagnosis and management of Pneumonia at your 
clinic? Please tell us how do you diagnose children suffering from Pneumonia?  
Probes: 
i. 
How do you diagnose and classify Pneumonia on the basis of its severity and does 
its treatment also varies accordingly? Kindly explain. 
ii. 
Do you think any particular equipment is essential for the diagnosis of pneumonia? 
If there is any deficiency, please explain reasons for shortage of equipment. 
iii. 
How commonly antibiotics are used for treatment of Pneumonia? 
iv. 
Have you ever heard of any dispersible (soluble in water) antibiotic tablet? If so, do 
you perceive any advantage of dispersible tablets over syrups? What do you 
routinely prescribe? 
v. 
In your opinion, what is the perception of the community regarding use of 
dispersible tablets? 
vi. 
Do you think there is any role and advantage of using oxygen in treating 
pneumonia? Is it being used at your clinic? If not, can you explain the reasons?  
vii. 
In case of complicated Pneumonia cases, what referral mechanisms exist for 
transferring these children to higher-level health facilities?  
 
5. Can you please tell us how do you manage children suffering from Diarrhea at your clinic?  
Probes: 
i. 
How do you diagnose childhood diarrhea and do you differentiate it from 
dysentery? 
ii. 
Now focusing on diarrhea, do you classify patients on the basis of severity of 
dehydration? If so, how? 
iii. 
What options do you have to treat childhood diarrhea with oral medications? 
iv. 
Is there any role of oral Zinc in its treatment? If so, what type of Zinc formulation is 
usually provided at your clinic? 
v. 
Have you ever heard of any dispersible (soluble in water) tablets of Zinc? If so, do 
you perceive any advantage of dispersible tablets over syrups? 
vi. 
In your opinion, how would community take the idea of using dispersible tablets? 
vii. 
Do you think there is any advantage of using Low Osmolarity ORS compared to 
regular ORS in treating Diarrhea? What do you routinely prescribe? 
viii. 
In case of complications, what referral mechanisms exist for transferring these 
children to higher-level health facilities? 
 
6. Now, I would like you to comment on the cost of treating Pneumonia and Diarrhea? 
Probes: 
i. 
In your opinion, does cost play a significant influence over the choice of medicines 
prescribed and service provider? 
ii. 
 How commonly do you prescribe a medicine to be bought from market in case of its 
stock-out? 
iii. 
What do you do in case of a non-affording patient? Do you prescribe inexpensive 
medicines? 
 
7. What must be done to improve the quality of pneumonia and diarrhea services at 
community level? 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
118 
  
GUIDE FOR FOCUS GROUP DISCUSSION (FGDs) WITH BENEFICIARIES 
(MOTHERS OF CHILDREN UNDER 5 YEARS) 
 
Name of District 
  
Number of Participants  
  
Date 
  
During the initial discussion to explain the evaluation, the interviewer and participant 
should have had the opportunity to introduce themselves and to make small talk to break 
the ice. You can begin by saying these words to the group of participants: 
 ‘As you know Pneumonia and Diarrhea are common causes of deaths among children 
under age 5. We are conducting a study to learn about of health-seeking behaviors 
regarding these diseases among children and would like to know your views in this regards. 
We will start when you are ready, will listen to your view points and ask few questions to 
clarify some of the things you would talk about.’ May we begin? 
The guideline contains multiple questions and each question is followed by a set of 
probes. Please let participants initiate the discussion and use probes only when certain 
concerns are not addressed by the group. 
 
1. What causes diarrhoea and pneumonia and what are the symptoms?  
o In your opinion, which preventive measures and/or habits can prevent spread 
of pneumonia or diarrhoeal diseases? 
o From which source have you received this information? 
o Do you undertake these actions for your child/children? 
o Where does your family get water from?  Do you drink it directly from the 
source? 
o Where does your family (adults and children) go to the toilet?  
o Does your family (adults and children) wash their hands?  With water only? 
 
2. Where do most people prefer to go to seek treatment of children? What degree of influence do 
you think the cultural and family norms and beliefs have over the choice of treatment?   
o Do you use a traditional doctor / spiritual healer for child illness? 
o What cultural beliefs influence child illness and treatment seeking in this 
community? 
o Do you go to the health centre for child illness? 
o What is your opinion about the quality of the services provided by the health 
centre? 
o Do you prefer Dispersible tablets or syrup for treatment of diarrhea and 
pneumonia? 
o Do you directly go to the chemist for your child illness? 
o Why do you use the chemist (instead of the health centre?) 
 
3. Where have you learnt from about child illness? 
o What child survival information, education and communication activities are 
targeted at mothers/fathers? 
o What measures should be taken to improve the community’s knowledge about 
child illness? 
 
4. What activities do health workers (LHWs) undertake in the community regarding diarrhea 
and pneumonia? 
o Are they providing sufficient care for diarrhea and pneumonia? 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
119 
o What challenges do health workers face doing their work in the community? 
o How can their services be improved? 
 
5. What are the main challenges you face in going to the health centre or accessing treatment for 
child illness? 
o What are the reasons that some families not take their child for treatment if 
they are ill? 
o Does the cost of accessing treatment sometimes prevent some families from 
taking the child? 
o What do you say about the overall quality of services? Would you like to visit 
this facility again for child care? 
o Do you have any suggestion to improve the services? 
 
6. In your view, what have been the biggest obstacle tin combating childhood diarrhea and 
pneumonia? What are the solutions to these challenges / barriers? 
 
7. What can be done to improve the health of children in this area? 
 
 
 
 
FGDs GUIDE WITH IN-CHARGES OF PHARMACIES/MEDICAL STORE  
 
1. Which antibiotic is most commonly prescribed by clinicians (specialists/ General 
Practitioners) for the treatment of respiratory tract infections in children in your catchment 
area? 
Probe: 
i. 
Do you find any difference in prescribing pattern of Specialists and GPs? If yes, 
please elaborate. 
ii. 
In your opinion, what are the prime considerations of clinician to prescribe any 
drug?  
 
2. Which medicine is most commonly prescribed by clinicians (specialists/ General 
Practitioners) for the treatment of diarrhea in children in your catchment area? 
Probe: 
i. 
Do you receive prescription of Zinc for children suffering from diarrhea? If yes how 
frequently and by whom? GP or specialist? 
ii. 
If not, probe if it was ever prescribed in the past. If so, what is probable reason for 
non-continuation? 
iii. 
Do you find any difference in prescribing pattern of Specialists and GPs? If yes, 
please elaborate. 
iv. 
In your opinion, what are the prime considerations of clinician to prescribe any 
drug? 
 
 
3. What factor/s do you routinely consider while placing order for any new drug not acquired 
and sold before?   
 
4. If any medicine is available in syrup as well as dispersible tablet form, which one, in your 
experience, client/patient would prefer and why so? 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
120 
5. Do you have amoxicillin and zinc in dispersible tablets (DT) formulation in stock for sale? 
If not, why not? 
Probe: 
i. 
Will you like to keep Amoxicillin and Zinc (DT) in your pharmacy?  
ii. 
Is the supply of these medicines regular or intermittent? What are the reasons for 
delay, if any? 
iii. 
In your opinion, which marketing strategy is more likely to promote demand and 
sale of these drugs? 
 
6. Do you receive prescriptions from the public sector health facilities as well (e.g. BHUs, 
RHC, THQ, DHQ, and MCH)? If so, about what percentage do you get such prescriptions? 
If not, why not? 
Probe: 
i. 
Is the client/patient specifically referred to your pharmacy from public sector 
facility or is the client given free choice to select any?  
 
 
 
 
Tool for Prescription Review  
 
PRESCRIPTION 
Drug 
Formulation* 
Dose 
Frequency 
Duration 
Amoxicillin 
 
 
 
 
Zinc Sulfate 
 
 
 
 
ORS (LO or 
regular) 
 
 
 
 
* Formulations include Syrup, Dispersible Tablet, Sachet or Tablet. 
 
 
 
FACILITY IDENTIFICATION 
Name of the district  
Name of the facility 
Address  
Facility Code (HID No) 
PATIENT IDENTIFICATION 
Age of Child 
Gender 
Provisional Diagnosis 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
121 
Annex 6: Risk Register 
1 
 EXTERNAL RISKS  
 
Project risks 
Assessment of 
impact of risks 
Assessment of 
probability of 
risks 
Possible mitigation 
Residual risks 
that cannot be managed 
1.1 
Political/Terrorism Situation 
1.1.1 
Protests 
High 
Medium 
Contingency operational planning of 
field operations  
Country-wide impact 
1.1.2 
Military operation 
High 
Medium 
Security measures to be adopted and 
local personnel/organizations to be 
involved 
Security threat in high risk areas/no-go areas 
1.1.3 
Unstable political 
situation 
High 
Medium 
Support from local political parties 
and government  
Change of government  
1.2 
Health Priorities and staff transitions 
1.2.1 
Field activities and 
operations 
High 
Medium 
Days to be identified beforehand and 
planning done accordingly 
 
Set plan for operations 
Emergency outbreaks/epidemic/accidents 
causing disruption in operationalization  
1.2.2 
Posting/Transfer of any 
potential key officer (in 
Government/ 
programme) 
Medium 
Medium 
Rapport building sessions with 
Programme /Government officials 
Key stakeholders officials transferred and 
vacant positions 
1.3 
Security Situation  
1.3.1 
Law & order situation  
High 
High 
Only local field and operational 
teams to be involved/hired 
 
Security threats in high risk areas/no-go 
areas 
1.3.2 
Movement in hard to 
reach areas 
High  
High 
Security measures to be adopted and 
local personnel to be involved 
 
Security planning to be done 
beforehand 
1.4 
Natural Disasters or Disease Outbreaks 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
122 
1.4.1 
Extreme weather 
conditions 
Medium 
Medium 
Variation in functioning hours in 
winters and summer according to 
the terrain/location 
Natural calamities 
1.4.2 
Natural Calamities and 
Disasters 
Medium 
Low 
Forecasting, precautionary 
measures for disaster management  
Crisis and disasters 
1.5 
Capacity issues  
1.5.1 
Inexperienced and un-
qualified field teams  
Medium 
Low 
Recruitment on the basis of previous 
experience within similar and local 
context and refresher trainings 
periodically 
Local staff with requisite skills and 
qualification difficult to identify  
1.6 
Internal dynamics  
1.6.1 
Potential drop-outs of 
field staff at any stage 
High 
Low 
Local context specific reputable and 
experienced team/consultants would 
be involved for operations  
Unforeseen drop-outs during 
operationalization  
1.7 
Inflation and economic situation 
1.7.1 
Implication of new 
budgetary cycle  
Low 
Low 
Agreement on rates beforehand and 
forecasting keeping flexibility done 
Additional cost of transport or personnel in 
lieu of hard to reach areas 
1.8 
Approval for Inception report 
 
 
1.8.1 
Delay in seeking approval 
on Inception report  
High 
High  
Regular meetings with UNICEF team 
for seeking early approval on report 
Unusual delay in getting feedback for 
inception report   
 
2 
INTERNAL RISKS  
 
Programme risks 
Assessment of 
impact of risks 
Assessment of 
probability of risks 
Possible mitigation 
Residual risks 
(that cannot be managed) 
2.1 
Security situation  
2.1.1 Mobility issues of field teams  
 
High 
High 
Local staff/teams will be engaged. 
Moreover, Instructions given in Security 
manual to be adhered in letter and spirit 
Hard terrain and poor road 
network 
2.2 
Government/ Programme Support  
2.2.1 Inactive engagement of 
programme in supporting the 
Medium 
Low 
 
Rapport building meetings with Technical 
team to gauge support   
Key stakeholders/programme 
officials transferred and vacant 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
123 
vision, goals, objectives and 
operations  
positions 
2.2.2 Lack of coordination and rapport 
with governments 
Medium  
Low 
 
Placement of a reliable and transparent 
process to resolve disagreements and form 
coordination 
Governments’ policy and own 
interests 
2.2.3 Lack of support from 
programme for getting 
operational or financial data 
Medium 
Low 
Rapport building meetings with Technical 
team to gauge support from Programme  
Key stakeholders/programme 
officials transferred and vacant 
positions 
2.3 
Staff transitions 
2.3.1 Posting/change of project 
technical staff 
High 
Low 
Pool of alternate and equally qualified 
professionals maintained  
 
A team of experts shall be working together 
so that in case of any change, transition 
remain smooth 
Key positions become 
unavailable/vacant due to any 
unforeseen and unavoidable 
reason  
2.4 
Tight implementation timelines 
2.4.1 Delay in completion of linked 
planned activities due to 
interdependent nature  
High 
Low 
Workplan to be adhered as much as possible Project coming to an abrupt end 
or change in project activities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
124 
Annex 7: Description of Proposed Change Pathways 
Assumption 
Link with 
Project 
Outcomes 
Findings of MTE 
based on DAC 
Criteria 
DAC Linkage 
Recommendation 
Proposed Action 
Timeline 
Priority 
Prime 
Responsibility 
Supporting 
Role 
1. Proposed 
commodities 
(ones 
replacing 
existing) are 
more effective 
for the 
treatment of 
Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea. 
Policy 
Translation 
Empirical evidence on 
effectiveness of 
updated commodities 
Relevance and 
Effectiveness  
Scaling up in 
existing provinces 
and replicability in 
rest of Pakistan 
Evidence-based 
policy advocacy - 
enhancement of 
geographic coverage 
of the interventions 
 
 
Resource allocation 
- donor 
identification and 
earmarking of funds 
Short term 
+++ 
 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team  
Federal and 
Provincial 
Governments 
Use of updated 
commodities is more 
effective in terms of 
better management 
through early diagnosis 
(ARI Timers) and 
accuracy of dosage (use 
of DTs) 
Medium 
term 
++ 
Provincial Health 
Departments 
CSG and 
TWG 
2. Ensuring 
better 
availability of 
these 
commodities 
at the public 
health 
facilities will 
ensure better 
treatment of 
Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea 
patients. 
Policy 
Implementation 
Better diagnosis and 
treatment through use 
of Pulse Oximeters and 
Oxygen at health 
facilities and ARI 
Timers for Lady Health 
Workers 
Efficiency and 
Effectiveness 
Strengthening of 
supply chain 
management (from 
DOH to health 
facilities and 
outreach) 
Capacity building of 
DOH on supply 
chain management  
Medium 
term 
+++ 
SCM 
implementing 
partner 
Federal and 
Provincial 
Governments 
Varied availability of 
DT at public sector 
facilities and no 
availability of DTs in 
open market of the 
revised commodities 
Establish wider and 
proactive public-
private partnership 
models through 
engaging pharma 
industry along with 
DRAP, medical, 
nursing and 
paramedical 
institutions 
Dialogues on 
opportunities for 
pharma industry and 
drugs distribution 
network 
Short term 
+++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team  
CSG and 
TWG 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
125 
Assumption 
Link with 
Project 
Outcomes 
Findings of MTE 
based on DAC 
Criteria 
DAC Linkage 
Recommendation 
Proposed Action 
Timeline 
Priority 
Prime 
Responsibility 
Supporting 
Role 
3. Government 
institutions are 
willing to 
participate in 
the project. 
Policy Change 
Willingness of federal 
and provincial 
government institutions 
is evident from their 
concurrence on project 
interventions.  
 
The project is 
supporting provincial 
health departments in 
implementation of joint 
accountability 
framework through 
CSG/TWG. 
Relevance  
Continuance of 
government support 
for health system 
strengthening and 
policy 
implementation  
Sharing MTE results 
with stakeholders 
with special focus 
on role of 
CSG/TWG  
  
Short term 
+ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team  
Federal and 
Provincial 
Governments 
4. 
Effectiveness 
of the 
promoted 
methods and 
commodities 
are well 
acknowledged 
at the local 
level.  
Policy 
Translation 
Healthcare providers 
and outreach workers at 
local levels 
acknowledged the use 
of updated 
commodities for 
effective management. 
Effectiveness 
Enhancing private 
sector engagement 
for updating their 
prescribing 
behaviours  
Active involvement 
of professional 
associations in 
advocacy for private 
practitioners 
Medium 
term 
++ 
Professional 
Associations 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
On the contrary, private 
sector providers lacked 
familiarity with the 
updated commodities 
due to their limited 
engagement in the 
project activities.  
Continued capacity 
building program for 
service providers 
from both public 
and private 
providers 
Long term 
+++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team 
Professional 
Associations 
5. All 
stakeholders 
recognize 
improved 
diagnosis and 
treatment of 
Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea 
as a shared 
Knowledge 
Management 
Updated federal and 
provincial policies and 
guidelines reflect the 
recognition of 
improved management 
as a shared goal 
Sustainability 
Translation of 
lessons learnt (scale 
up and replication) 
to other 
geographical 
settings  
Evidence-based 
policy advocacy - 
enhancement 
of 
geographic coverage 
of the interventions 
 
Rolling-out IMNCI 
in target provinces 
and advocacy for 
Long term 
++ 
M/o NHSR&C 
and Health 
Departments 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team 
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
126 
Assumption 
Link with 
Project 
Outcomes 
Findings of MTE 
based on DAC 
Criteria 
DAC Linkage 
Recommendation 
Proposed Action 
Timeline 
Priority 
Prime 
Responsibility 
Supporting 
Role 
goal.  
replication in other 
provinces 
and 
regions of Pakistan 
6. Policy 
makers, health 
institutions 
and 
pharmaceutica
l industry are 
as receptive to 
new ideas and 
demands.  
Policy Change 
Evident receptivity of 
policy makers, health 
institutions from 
updated government 
documents 
(MSDP/EPHS, 
Essential medicines 
list, provincial 
procurement lists)   
Relevance & 
Effectiveness 
Continued advocacy 
with pharmaceutical 
manufacturers for 
local production  
Engaging with 
private pharma and 
distribution 
networks by sharing 
areas of 
opportunities and 
informing them 
about benefits of 
treatment 
 
Building stronger 
collaborations with 
DRAP and private 
sector  
Short term 
++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team  
Pharma 
industry and 
DRAP 
Limited interest of 
pharmaceutical 
manufacturers in local 
production  
  
Direct Demand 
Creation: 
Convincing 
provincial health 
authorities to 
include updated 
commodities in 
provincial 
procurement lists 
  
Medium 
term 
++ 
Provincial Health 
Department 
Pharmaceutica
l industry 
through 
relevant 
associations 
  
7. Sufficient 
political will is 
available to 
control 
Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea. 
Policy Change 
Political will and 
commitment is evident 
from inclusion of 
Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea in  Pakistan’s 
national health vision 
and priorities for child 
health as well as the 
provincial health sector 
strategies 
Relevance and 
Sustainability  
Concerted advocacy 
efforts with political 
leadership for 
sustained will and 
commitment under 
the GAPPD for 
childhood 
Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea 
management 
Policy dialogues and 
roundtables on 
improving 
management of 
Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea through 
updated 
commodities  
Short term 
+++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team 
 
M/o 
NHSR&C and 
Health 
Departments 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
127 
Assumption 
Link with 
Project 
Outcomes 
Findings of MTE 
based on DAC 
Criteria 
DAC Linkage 
Recommendation 
Proposed Action 
Timeline 
Priority 
Prime 
Responsibility 
Supporting 
Role 
Project interventions 
are aligned with 
provincial health sector 
strategies of Sindh and 
Punjab 
Mass-media 
engagement: 
Opinion Editorials 
in leading national 
newspapers 
Televised debates  
Medium 
term 
++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team 
 
Mass-media 
agencies 
8. Child 
survival group 
represent all 
relevant 
stakeholders 
and produce 
ownership of 
its 
recommendati
on. 
Policy Change 
Child Survival Group 
of Punjab and 
Technical Working 
Group of Sindh have 
representation of all 
relevant stakeholders.  
Effectiveness 
Fostering 
CSG/TWG for 
harnessing its 
optimal potential 
and taking measure 
for sustenance 
beyond the project 
life 
Institutionalization 
of CSG/TWG 
through inclusion in 
PC-1 documents of 
relevant health 
programs 
(IRMNCH, MNCH 
and LHWs) 
Long term 
+ 
CSG and TWG  
- 
Ownership of 
CSG/TWG is evident 
from the decision-
making and its follow-
up by the members 
during CSG/TWG 
meetings. 
Recommendations of 
CSG/TWG have been 
critical in policy 
translation and 
implementation. 
Setting-up a small 
secretarial unit for 
the CSG and TWG 
Short term 
++ 
CSG and TWG  
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team  
9. Credible 
and well-
organized 
implementing 
partners. 
Policy 
Implementation 
Project has identified 
implementing partners 
who have the capacity 
and spread across the 
country to effectively 
implement the project 
activities 
in 
their 
specific areas.  
Efficiency   
Building local 
capacities through 
engagement of 
existing partners and 
identifying new 
partners 
Prioritize areas for 
local partnership 
based on the 
findings of MTE 
Short term 
+++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team  
Implementing 
partners 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
128 
Assumption 
Link with 
Project 
Outcomes 
Findings of MTE 
based on DAC 
Criteria 
DAC Linkage 
Recommendation 
Proposed Action 
Timeline 
Priority 
Prime 
Responsibility 
Supporting 
Role 
10. 
Province 
and 
federal 
level 
stakeholders 
share the same 
vision 
for 
improved 
diagnosis and 
treatment 
of 
Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea. 
Policy Change 
Decentralization 
of 
health 
sector 
has 
created 
dichotomies 
among 
federal 
level 
and 
provinces. 
The 
project 
attempts 
to 
bridge 
this 
gap 
by 
supporting 
certain 
platforms to build a 
shared vision.    
Relevance 
Strengthen federal, 
provincial linkages 
and coordination to 
implement National 
Health Vision and 
provincial 
policies/strategies 
priorities focusing 
on health system 
strengthening for 
improved 
management P&D 
Encourage 
participation 
of 
federal 
representative 
in 
CSG/TWG  
Short term 
+++ 
M/o NHSR&C 
and Health 
Departments  
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team  
Cross-sharing 
of 
challenges, lessons 
learnt 
among 
the 
provinces 
Short term 
++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team  
M/o 
NHSR&C and 
Health 
Departments  
11. Ownership 
of the 
initiatives at 
district level 
health 
management.  
Policy 
Implementation 
Ownership 
of 
the 
project interventions is 
being 
built 
through 
strengthening 
the 
existing 
service 
delivery by improving 
management practices 
of healthcare providers, 
mainly 
outreach 
workers and primary 
level facilities 
Effectiveness 
 
 
 
Revitalization of 
district level 
decision-making and 
coordination 
platform for 
enhancing 
ownership, side by 
side focusing on 
district specific gaps 
in provision of 
updated 
commodities and 
capacity building 
(DHIS-2, LMIS, 
IMNCI) 
implementation 
commitment and 
sustainability 
Building district 
capacities on 
forecasting, 
procurement, 
distribution, 
maintenance and 
warehousing 
Long term 
+++ 
 
 
 
Implementing 
partners 
District Health 
Department  
Linkage of DHIS 
with LMIS 
Medium 
term 
+ 
District Health & 
Population 
Management 
Teams 
UNICEF 
Project 
Management 
Team  
Midterm Evaluation Report 
129 
Assumption 
Link with 
Project 
Outcomes 
Findings of MTE 
based on DAC 
Criteria 
DAC Linkage 
Recommendation 
Proposed Action 
Timeline 
Priority 
Prime 
Responsibility 
Supporting 
Role 
12. 
Government 
has sufficient 
resources to 
ensure 
sustainable 
commodities 
supply. 
Policy 
Translation 
Inclusion of updated 
commodities 
in 
key 
government documents 
(MSDP/EPHS, 
Essential 
medicines 
list, 
provincial 
procurement 
lists) 
shows 
government 
financial commitment..  
Efficiency and 
Effectiveness 
Advocacy on the 
benefits of updated 
commodities for 
replacing existing 
finances for 
alternative 
procurement 
Support to 
provincial health 
departments in 
sustainable 
implementation of 
integrated HLMIS 
through 
development of PC-
1 
  
Medium 
term 
++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team  
Provincial 
Health 
Departments 
13. Relevant 
institutions 
prioritize 
capacity 
building of 
service 
providing staff 
and allocate 
suitable time 
and financial 
resources to 
the same.  
Policy 
Translation  
Federal and provincial 
governments 
have 
updated 
IMNCI 
guidelines 
while 
catering 
to 
the 
challenges of previous 
curriculum and training 
duration. 
However, 
there are still gaps in 
allocation of resources 
for 
conducting 
the 
trainings 
across 
the 
board.   
 
District does not have 
resources 
for 
conducting 
IMNCI 
trainings 
Efficiency and 
Effectiveness 
Leveraging 
resources through 
advocacy and 
involvement of 
relevant 
stakeholders 
Strengthen district 
level action planning 
with inclusion of 
trainings with 
required resources 
 
Engagement of 
donors and 
development 
partners 
 
Engagement of 
Nursing Council, 
Midwifery 
Associations , PPP, 
Healthcare 
Commissions 
relevant DoH / 
Health inst. for 
curricula revision 
and trainings of 
HCPs and CHWs 
Long term 
+++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team  
Provincial 
Health 
Departments 
and Districts 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
130 
Assumption 
Link with 
Project 
Outcomes 
Findings of MTE 
based on DAC 
Criteria 
DAC Linkage 
Recommendation 
Proposed Action 
Timeline 
Priority 
Prime 
Responsibility 
Supporting 
Role 
14. Relevant 
stakeholders 
agree to 
update 
essential 
medicine list 
and minimum 
service 
delivery 
standards to 
include new 
areas for 
Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea 
control.  
Policy Change 
Federal and provincial 
governments 
have 
updated 
essential 
medicine 
list 
and 
minimum 
service 
delivery standards to 
include 
the 
updated 
commodities 
for 
Pneumonia 
and 
Diarrhea through the 
support of the project. 
Effectiveness 
Scale up and 
replication of these 
interventions to non-
project provinces 
and regions of 
Pakistan 
Evidence-based 
policy advocacy - 
enhancement of 
geographic coverage 
of the interventions 
Long term 
++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team  
Provincial 
Health 
Departments 
Sharing of findings 
of MTE with Health 
Departments and 
stakeholders of other 
provinces and 
regions of Pakistan 
Short term 
+++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team  
Provincial 
Health 
Departments 
15. System 
provisions, 
resources and 
adequate skill 
sets exist to 
facilitate 
inclusion of 
EML in 
logistics 
management 
information 
system.  
Policy 
Implementation 
Gaps 
in 
systems 
provisions, 
resources 
and skill sets are filled 
through development of 
integrated supply chain 
management system for 
the targeted districts 
Impact and 
Sustainability 
Strengthening 
government capacity 
to roll out LMIS and 
DHIS-02 
Training of 
provincial and 
district level 
managers on 
enhancing analytical 
skills, data 
interpretation skills 
and use of 
information  
 
Experience sharing 
through visits of 
areas/countries 
where DHIS 02 is 
operational for 
federal and 
provincial managers 
Long term 
++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team and 
SCM partners 
16. Local drug 
providers have 
the resources, 
capacity and 
interest in 
Policy 
Implementation 
Despite the resources 
and capacities, the local 
Pharma industry lacked 
interest 
in 
local 
production 
due 
to 
Sustainability 
Two-pronged 
approach with 
concurrent advocacy 
efforts to mitigate 
inherent barriers in 
Advocate with 
government and 
pharma industry for 
procurement of 
revised commodities  
Short term 
+++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team  
Provincial 
Health 
Departments 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
131 
Assumption 
Link with 
Project 
Outcomes 
Findings of MTE 
based on DAC 
Criteria 
DAC Linkage 
Recommendation 
Proposed Action 
Timeline 
Priority 
Prime 
Responsibility 
Supporting 
Role 
producing 
required 
Pneumonia 
and Diarrhea 
commodities.  
minimal 
demand 
of 
updated commodities in 
open market 
local production and 
public procurement 
 
Private sector 
engagement and 
proactive 
collaboration with 
DRAP 
Public procurement of 
updated 
commodities 
has yet to be initiated. 
Engagement of 
private providers 
through professional 
associations for 
change in 
prescribing 
behaviours 
  
  
Government 
initiating pre-
qualification of 
potential 
pharmaceutical 
manufacturers  
Medium 
term 
+++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team 
Professional 
Associations 
Demand for updated 
commodities increased 
through engagement 
with general 
practitioners and their 
professional 
associations.  
  
17. Existing 
information 
systems 
include 
information on 
updated 
commodities 
Policy 
Implementation 
DHIS tools are revised 
to record and report on 
updated commodities in 
Sindh 
Sustainability 
Revision of DHIS 
tools for updated 
commodities in 
Punjab 
Technical assistance 
to relevant 
stakeholders for 
revision and support 
in printing of 
revised tools 
  
Short term 
+ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team 
Provincial 
Health 
Departments 
Ensuring 
implementation of 
DHIS-2 and LMIS 
Improving quality of 
DHIS data 
Training of facility 
and district level 
staff relevant to 
recording and 
reporting on data 
quality  
Long term 
+++ 
UNICEF Project 
Management 
Team 
District Health 
Department  
 
 
Midterm Evaluation Report 
132
 
