Diarrhoea : Why children are still dying and what can be done
Diarrhoea :
Why children are
still dying and what
can be done
© The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)/World Health Organization (WHO), 
2009. All rights reserved. 
WHO Library Cataloging-in-Publication Data 
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done  
1. Diarrhoea - mortality. 2. Diarrhoea - prevention and control. 3. Diarrhoea - diet 
therapy. 4. Rehydration solutions. 5. Child. I. World Health Organization.
ISBN 978-92-806-4462-3 (UNICEF) 
ISBN 978-92-4-159841-5 (NLM classiﬁcation: WS 312) (WHO)
Photo credit: cover © Jean D’Avignon
UNICEF and the World Health Organization welcome requests for permission to  
reproduce or translate their publications – whether for sale or for noncommercial  
distribution. Applications and enquiries should be addressed to UNICEF, Division of 
Communication, 3 United Nations Plaza, New York 10017, USA (Fax: +1 212 303 7985; 
E-mail: nyhqdoc.permit@unicef.org) or to WHO Press, World Health Organization,  
20 Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland (Fax: +41 22 791 4806; E-mail:  
permissions@who.int). 
The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication 
do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of UNICEF or the 
World Health Organization concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or 
area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. 
Dotted lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not yet 
be full agreement.
The mention of speciﬁc companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not 
imply that they are endorsed or recommended by UNICEF or the World Health  
Organization in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned.  
Errors and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary products are distinguished  
by initial capital letters. 
UNICEF/WHO, Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done, 2009 
Contents
Acknowledgements 
iv
Foreword 
v
Executive summary 
1
 1   The global burden of childhood diarrhoea 
4
 2   Diarrhoeal diseases: The basics 
8
 3   Preventing and treating childhood diarrhoea: Where we stand today 
18
 4   A 7-point plan for comprehensive diarrhoea control 
30
Data used in this report 
37
References 
41
Statistical annex 
44
Acknowledgements 
This report was prepared at UNICEF Headquarters 
by Emily White Johansson and Tessa Wardlaw in 
close collaboration with Nancy Binkin, Clarissa 
Brocklehurst, Therese Dooley, Peter Salama and 
Mark Young.
Overall guidance, advice and important inputs  
were provided by Nicholas Alipui, Fred Arnold,  
Al Bartlett, Jamie Bartram, Robert Black, Francisco 
Blanco, John Borrazzo, Robert Bos, Neal Brandes, 
Jennifer Bryce, Sandy Cairncross, Misun Choi,  
Mickey Chopra, Paula Claycomb, Trevor Croft,  
Oliver Cumming, Ngagne Diakhate, Olivier  
Fontaine, Shanelle Hall,  Matthew Hodge,  
Eckhard Kleinau, Jimmy Kolker, Chewe Luo,  
Nyein Nyein Lwin,  Elizabeth Mason, Eric Mintz, 
Richard Morgan, Jon Rohde, Werner Schultink,  
Peter Van Maanen, Christa Fischer Walker and 
Maniza Zaman.
Emerson, Wajdowicz Studios provided overall  
art direction, photo editing and design.  
Lois Jensen edited the report.
IV
Foreword
The Millennium Development Goals call for a  
reduction of child mortality by two thirds between 
1990 and 2015. As the deadline approaches, the  
reality is that although progress is being made, 
much more remains to be done. 
Nearly nine million children under ﬁve years of  
age die each year. Diarrhoea is second only to  
pneumonia as the cause of these deaths. Why is 
diarrhoea, an easily preventable and treatable 
disease, one that in the developed world is consid-
ered little more than an inconvenience, causing an 
estimated 1.5 million under-ﬁve deaths every year?
Reducing these deaths depends largely on deliver-
ing life-saving treatment of low-osmolarity oral 
rehydration salts (ORS) and zinc tablets to all  
children in need. However, progress will also  
require focusing on prevention, whether through 
the new rotavirus vaccine or by addressing the  
factors that lead to children developing the disease 
in the ﬁrst place.
Diarrhoea is more prevalent in the developing world 
due, in large part, to the lack of safe drinking water, 
sanitation and hygiene, as well as poorer overall 
health and nutritional status. According to the latest 
available ﬁgures, an estimated 2.5 billion people 
lack improved sanitation facilities, and nearly one 
billion people do not have access to safe drinking  
water. These unsanitary environments allow 
diarrhoea-causing pathogens to spread more easily.
Improving unsanitary environments alone,  
however, will not be enough as long as children 
continue to remain susceptible to the disease and 
are not eﬀectively treated once it begins. Evidence 
has shown that children with poor health and 
nutritional status are more vulnerable to serious 
infections like acute diarrhoea and suﬀer multiple 
episodes every year. At the same time, acute and 
prolonged diarrhoea seriously exacerbates poor 
health and malnutrition in children, creating a 
deadly cycle. 
In the 1970s and 1980s, the international community  
committed itself to reducing child mortality from 
diarrhoea largely by scaling up the use of oral  
rehydration therapy – a low-cost and highly eﬀective  
solution – coupled with programmes to educate 
caregivers on its appropriate use. The eﬀort met 
with great success. Yet today only about 39 per cent 
of children with diarrhoea in the developing world 
receive oral rehydration therapy and continued 
feeding, a ﬁgure that has changed little since 2000. 
This report sets out a 7-point strategy for compre-
hensive diarrhoea control that includes a treatment 
package to reduce child deaths, and a prevention 
package to reduce the number of diarrhoea cases  
for years to come. The report looks at treatment  
options such as low-osmolarity ORS and zinc 
tablets, as well as prevention measures such as the 
promotion of breastfeeding, vitamin A supplemen-
tation, immunization against rotavirus – a leading  
cause of diarrhoea – and proven methods of  
improving water, sanitation and hygiene practices.
Diarrhoea’s status as the second leading killer of 
children under ﬁve is an alarming reminder of the 
exceptional vulnerability of children in developing 
countries. Saving the lives of millions of children at 
risk of death from diarrhoea is possible with a com-
prehensive strategy that ensures all children in need 
receive critical prevention and treatment measures. 
V
Ann M. Veneman 
Executive Director
United Nations Children’s Fund
Dr Margaret Chan
Director-General
World Health Organization
Executive summary
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Executive summary
1
D
iarrhoea remains the second leading cause of death among children 
under ﬁve globally. Nearly one in ﬁve child deaths – about 1.5 million 
each year – is due to diarrhoea. It kills more young children than AIDS, 
malaria and measles combined.
In 2006, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the World Health  
Organization (WHO) issued a report highlighting the most common cause  
of death among children (Pneumonia: The Forgotten Killer of Children). The 
purpose was to raise the proﬁle of that neglected disease. This report is written 
with the same intent – to focus attention on the prevention and management  
of diarrhoeal diseases as central to improving child survival. Together, pneumo-
nia and diarrhoea are responsible for an estimated 40 per cent of all child  
deaths around the world each year. 
There are lessons to be learned from past experience. An international commit-
ment to tackle childhood diarrhoea in the 1970s and 1980s resulted in a major 
reduction in child deaths. This came about largely through the scaling up of  
oral rehydration therapy, coupled with programmes to educate caregivers on  
its appropriate use. But these eﬀorts lost momentum as the world turned its 
attention to other global emergencies. Today, only 39 per cent of children with 
diarrhoea in developing countries receive the recommended treatment, and  
limited trend data suggest that there has been little progress since 2000. 
This report examines the latest available information on the burden and distri-
bution of childhood diarrhoea. It also analyses how well countries are doing in 
making available key interventions proven to reduce its toll. Most importantly, it 
lays out a new strategy for diarrhoea control, one that is based on interventions 
drawn from diﬀerent sectors that have demonstrated potential to save children’s 
lives. It sets out a 7-point plan that includes a treatment package to reduce  
childhood diarrhoea deaths, as well as a prevention package to make a lasting 
reduction in the diarrhoea burden in the medium to long term.
2
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
New aspects of this approach include vaccinations 
for rotavirus, which is estimated to cause about  
40 per cent of hospital admissions due to diarrhoea 
among children under ﬁve worldwide.3 In terms 
of community-wide sanitation, new approaches 
to increase demand to stop open defecation have 
proven more eﬀective than previous strategies. It 
has been estimated that 88 per cent of diarrhoeal 
deaths worldwide are attributable to unsafe water, 
inadequate sanitation and poor hygiene.4
Actions needed to take interventions to scale
In many countries, progress has been made in  
the delivery or promotion of several of these inter-
ventions, particularly vitamin A supplementation 
and exclusive breastfeeding. However, a substantial  
reduction in the diarrhoea burden will require 
greater emphasis on the following actions:
■ Ensure wide availability of low-osmolarity ORS 
and zinc, which could have a profound impact on 
child deaths from diarrhoea if scaled up immedi-
ately. Possible strategies to increase their uptake 
and availability could include the development  
of smaller ORS packets and ﬂavoured formulas,  
as well as delivering zinc and low-osmolarity  
ORS together in diarrhoea treatment kits. 
■ Include rotavirus vaccine in national immuniza-
tion programmes worldwide, which was recently 
recommended by the World Health Organization.  
Accelerating its introduction, particularly in 
A 7-point plan for  
comprehensive diarrhoea control
Treatment package
The treatment package focuses on two main elements,  
as outlined in a 2004 joint statement from UNICEF 
and WHO:1 1) ﬂuid replacement to prevent dehydra-
tion and 2) zinc treatment. Oral rehydration therapy 
– which has been heralded as one of the most 
important medical advances of the 20th century2 – 
is the cornerstone of ﬂuid replacement. New aspects 
of this approach include low-osmolarity oral rehy- 
dration salts (ORS), which are more eﬀective at 
replacing ﬂuids than the original ORS formulation, 
and zinc treatment, which decreases diarrhoea 
severity and duration. Important additional compo-
nents of the package are continued feeding, including  
breastfeeding, during diarrhoea episodes and the use 
of appropriate ﬂuids available in the home if ORS are  
not available, along with increased ﬂuids in general.
Prevention package
The prevention package highlights ﬁve main ele-
ments that require a concerted approach in their 
implementation. The package includes: 3) rotavirus 
and measles vaccinations, 4) promotion of early and 
exclusive breastfeeding and vitamin A supplemen-
tation, 5) promotion of handwashing with soap, 6) 
improved water supply quantity and quality, includ-
ing treatment and safe storage of household water, 
and 7) community-wide sanitation promotion. 
Executive summary
3
Africa and Asia, where the rotavirus burden is 
greatest, should be an international priority. 
■ Develop and implement behaviour change 
interventions, such as face-to-face counselling,  
to encourage exclusive breastfeeding. 
■ Ensure sustained high levels of vitamin A 
supplementation, such as by combining its 
delivery, where eﬀective, with other high-impact 
health and nutrition interventions.
■ Apply results of existing consumer research on 
how to motivate people to wash their hands 
with soap to increase this beneﬁcial and 
cost-eﬀective health practice. Handwashing  
with soap has been shown to reduce the incidence 
of diarrhoeal disease by over 40 per cent.5
■ Adopt household water treatment and safe 
storage systems, such as chlorination and 
ﬁltration, in both development and emergency 
situations to support reductions in the number of 
diarrhoea cases. 
■ Implement approaches that increase demand to 
stop community-wide open defecation. As with 
handwashing, the new approach employs behav-
ioural triggers, such a pride, shame and disgust, 
to motivate action, and leads to greater ownership 
and sustainability of programmes. 
We know what works to immediately reduce deaths 
from childhood diarrhoea. We also know what actions  
will make a lasting contribution to reducing the toll  
of diarrhoeal diseases for years to come. But strength-
ened eﬀorts on both fronts must begin right away. 
The following actions are needed to take the 7-point 
plan to scale: 
■ Mobilize and allocate resources for diarrhoea 
control.
■ Reinstate diarrhoea prevention and treatment as a 
cornerstone of community-based primary health care.
■ Ensure that low-osmolarity ORS and zinc are 
adopted as policy in all countries. 
■ Reach every child with eﬀective interventions. 
■ Accelerate the provision of basic water and 
sanitation services. 
■ Use innovative strategies to increase the adoption 
of proven measures against diarrhoea. 
■ Change behaviours through community involve-
ment, education and health-promotion activities. 
■ Make health systems work to control diarrhoea. 
■ Monitor progress at all levels, and make the 
results count. 
■ Make the prevention and treatment of diarrhoea 
everybody’s business.
There is no better time than now. Political momen-
tum is building to address the leading causes of 
child deaths, including pneumonia and diarrhoea, 
to achieve measurable gains in child survival. The 
year 2008 marked the 30th anniversary of the Alma-
Ata Declaration, with reinvigorated calls to focus on 
primary health care. Lessening the burden of child-
hood diarrhoea ﬁts squarely with this emphasis, 
and is essential for achieving Millennium Develop-
ment Goal 4: reduce child mortality, whose target 
date is now only six years away. 
4
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
1
SECTION The global burden of  
childhood diarrhoea
The global burden of 
childhood diarrhoea 1
5
Mortality from diarrhoea has declined over the past 
two decades from an estimated 5 million deaths 
among children under ﬁve to 1.5 million deaths in 
2004,7 which parallels downward trends in overall 
under-ﬁve mortality during this period. Despite 
these declines, diarrhoea remains the second  
most common cause of death among children under 
ﬁve globally (Figure 2), following closely behind 
pneumonia, the leading killer of young children. 
Together, pneumonia and diarrhoea account for  
an estimated 40 per cent of all child deaths around 
the world each year. Nearly one in ﬁve child deaths 
is due to diarrhoea, a loss of about 1.5 million lives 
each year. The toll is greater than that caused by 
AIDS, malaria and measles combined.
Africa and South Asia are home to more than 80 per 
cent of child deaths due to diarrhoea (Figure 3). Just 
15 countries account for almost three quarters of all 
deaths from diarrhoea among children under ﬁve 
years of age annually (Figure 4).  
Each year, an estimated 2.5 billion cases of diarrhoea occur among children  
under ﬁve years of age, and estimates suggest that overall incidence has  
remained relatively stable over the past two decades.6 More than half of these 
cases are in Africa and South Asia (Figure 1), where bouts of diarrhoea are more 
likely to result in death or other severe outcomes. The incidence of diarrhoeal 
diseases varies greatly with the seasons and a child’s age. The youngest children 
are most vulnerable: Incidence is highest in the ﬁrst two years of life and  
declines as a child grows older. 
783 million 
South Asia
435 million
East Asia & Paciﬁc
ASIA
480 million
Rest of the world
Source: Based on World Health Organization, Global Burden of Disease estimates, 2004 
update. The proportional distribution for UNICEF regions was calculated by applying the  
WHO cause of death estimates to the most recent estimates for the total number of under-ﬁve 
deaths (2007).
Proportional distribution of diarrhoea cases among children under  
ﬁve years of age, by region, 2004 
Africa and South Asia account for  
over half the cases of childhood diarrhoea 
FIGURE 
1
696 million
Africa
Proportional distribution of cause-speciﬁc deaths among children under ﬁve years of age, 2004
Source: World Health Organization, Global Burden of Disease estimates, 2004 update.   
Note: Neonatal causes do not add up to 100 per cent due to rounding. Globally, more than one third of deaths among children under ﬁve are attributable to undernutrition.
Diarrhoea is the second most common cause of child deaths worldwide
FIGURE 
2
6
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
37%
Neonatal causes
 13% 
Other
7% 
Malaria
4% 
Measles
2% 
AIDS
 16% 
 DIARRHOEA
 17%
Pneumonia
4%
Injuries
3% DIARRHOEAL DISEASES 
3% Neonatal tetanus 
31%
     Prematurity and  
          low birthweight
   23%
    Birth asphyxia and  
 birth trauma
    25%
         Neonatal infections  
          (mostly sepsis/ 
         pneumonia)
9% Other
7 % Congenital anomalies
Figure 2 shows that 17 per cent and 16 per cent of deaths among 
children under ﬁve are due to pneumonia and diarrhoea, respec-
tively. But these ﬁgures do not include deaths during the neonatal 
period (the ﬁrst four weeks of life). Diarrhoea causes 3 per cent 
of neonatal deaths (or an additional 1 per cent of total under-ﬁve 
deaths), while 25 per cent of neonatal deaths are due to severe 
infections (of which one third are caused by pneumonia, adding 
another 3 per cent to under-ﬁve deaths). Therefore, pneumonia 
and diarrhoea actually cause about 20 per cent and 17 per cent, 
respectively, of total under-ﬁve deaths when estimates from the 
post-neonatal and neonatal periods are combined. 
Proportional distribution of deaths due to diarrhoeal diseases 
among children under ﬁve years of age, by region, 2004
Total number of deaths due to diarrhoea among children under ﬁve 
years of age, 15 countries with highest number of deaths, 2004
Source: World Health Organization, Global Burden of Disease estimates, 2004 update, 
with additional analyses to calculate UNICEF regions.
More than 80 per cent of child deaths due to  
diarrhoea occur in Africa and South Asia
Nearly three quarters of child deaths  
due to diarrhoea occur in just 15 countries
FIGURE 
3
FIGURE 
4
Source: World Health Organization, Global Burden of Disease estimates, 2004 update.
The totals were calculated by applying the WHO cause of death estimates to the most recent 
estimates for the total number of under-ﬁve deaths (2007).
The global burden of 
childhood diarrhoea 1
7
 38%
South Asia
7%
Rest of the world
 
 
TOTAL NUMBER OF  
 
 
ANNUAL CHILD DEATHS 
RANK  
COUNTRY  
DUE TO DIARRHOEA
1 
India 
386,600
2 
Nigeria 
151,700
3 
Democratic Republic of the Congo 
89,900
4 
Afghanistan 
82,100
5 
Ethiopia 
73,700
6 
Pakistan 
53,300
7 
Bangladesh 
50,800
8 
China 
40,000
9 
Uganda 
29,300
10 
Kenya 
27,400
11 
Niger 
26,400
12 
Burkina Faso 
24,300
13 
United Republic of Tanzania 
23,900
14 
Mali 
20,900
15 
Angola 
19,700
ASIA
9%
East Asia & Paciﬁc
46%
Africa
2
SECTION 
Diarrhoeal diseases: 
The basics
8
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Diarrhoeal diseases:
The basics 2
BOX 
1
9
What causes diarrhoea? 
Diarrhoea is a common symptom of gastrointestinal 
infections caused by a wide range of pathogens, 
including bacteria, viruses and protozoa. However, 
just a handful of organisms are responsible for most 
acute cases of childhood diarrhoea.8 Rotavirus is the 
leading cause of acute diarrhoea, and is responsible 
for about 40 per cent of all hospital admissions due  
to diarrhoea among children under ﬁve worldwide.9 
Other major bacterial pathogens include E. coli, 
Shigella, Campylobacter and Salmonella, along 
with V. cholerae during epidemics (Box 1). Crypto-
sporidium has been the most frequently isolated 
protozoan pathogen among children seen at  
health facilities and is frequently found among  
Diarrhoea is deﬁned as having loose or watery stools at least three times per 
day, or more frequently than normal for an individual. Though most episodes of 
childhood diarrhoea are mild, acute cases can lead to signiﬁcant ﬂuid loss and 
dehydration, which may result in death or other severe consequences if ﬂuids 
are not replaced at the ﬁrst sign of diarrhoea. 
Diarrhoea is a leading cause of death during complex 
emergencies and natural disasters. Displacement of 
populations into temporary, overcrowded shelters is 
often associated with polluted water sources, inadequate 
sanitation, poor hygiene practices, contaminated food and 
malnutrition – all of which affect the spread and severity  
of diarrhoea. At the same time, the lack of adequate health 
services and transport reduces the likelihood of prompt and 
appropriate treatment of diarrhoea cases.
In 1994, between 500,000 and 800,000 Rwandan refugees  
ﬂooded into areas around Goma in what is now the  
Democratic Republic of the Congo. An estimated 50,000 
deaths occurred in the ﬁrst month alone, with 85 per cent 
of them attributed to diarrhoea. The scarcity of water was 
cited as the main cause for the outbreak. Malnutrition is 
also common in emergencies and tends to be heightened  
when feeding practices are disrupted and sanitation 
deteriorates. 
Diarrhoea control is a main concern when responding to 
complex emergencies, such as the one in Goma. Priority 
interventions include providing safe water in adequate 
quantities, setting up appropriate sanitation facilities, 
establishing health services to rapidly detect and treat 
cases, and promoting good hygiene. In recent years,  
progress has been made in implementing community-
based interventions when responding to emergencies, 
such as promoting exclusive breastfeeding, micronutrient 
supplementation, point-of-use water treatment,  
handwashing with soap, and treating cases with oral  
rehydration salts or appropriate homemade ﬂuids.
Sources: Goma Epidemiology Group, ‘Public Health Impact of the Rwandan 
Refugee Crisis: What happened in Goma, Zaire, in July 1994’, The Lancet, 
vol. 345, no. 8964, 1995, pp. 339-344.
In humanitarian crises, diarrhoea is a major cause of death  
HIV-positive patients (Box 2). Though cholera is  
often thought of as a major cause of child deaths 
due to diarrhoea, most cases occur among adults 
and older children. 
How are diarrhoea pathogens transmitted?
Most pathogens that cause diarrhoea share a  
similar mode of transmission – from the stool  
of one person to the mouth of another. This is 
known as faecal-oral transmission. There may be 
diﬀerences, however, in the number of organisms 
needed to cause clinical illness, or in the route  
the pathogen takes while travelling between  
individuals (for example, from the stool to food  
or water, which is then ingested). 
Diarrhoea is a common manifestation of HIV infection 
in both adults and children. In adults, it is usually the 
consequence of a deteriorating immune system late in the 
HIV disease cycle. In children with HIV, it is often the result 
of frequently aggressive common childhood infections 
caused by pathogens such as Campylobacter, E. coli, 
Salmonella, Shigella or rotavirus.10  When diarrhoea 
persists for more than two weeks in children, it may be an  
indicator of stage 3 HIV infection, according to WHO, and 
requires further evaluation and antiretroviral treatment.11 
Persistent diarrhoea occurs with increased frequency in 
HIV-infected children, and is associated with an 11-fold 
increase in mortality compared to uninfected children.12 
Causes of persistent diarrhoea in HIV-positive children 
include HIV-related malabsorption, gut manifestation of 
tuberculosis,  gut infections and infestations of pathogens 
such as Cryptosporidium parvum, Cyclospora cayetanensis, 
Isospora belli, Microsporidia and cytomegalovirus. 
Management of diarrhoea in children with HIV is the same 
as in children without the virus, as outlined in this report.13
Sources: Partners in Health, The PIH Guide to the Community-Based Treat-
ment of HIV in Resource-Poor Settings (Revised Second Edition), Partners in 
Health, Boston, 2008; World Health Organization, Antiretroviral Therapy of 
HIV Infection in Infants and Children: Towards universal access. Recommen-
dations for a public health approach, WHO, Geneva, 2006; Tindyebwa, D., 
et al., ‘Common Clinical Conditions Associated with HIV’, in: Handbook on 
Paediatric AIDS in Africa, 2004; Lule, J.R., et al., ‘Effect of Home-Based Water 
Chlorination and Safe Storage on Diarrhea Among Persons with Human  
Immunodeﬁciency Virus in Uganda’,  American Journal of Tropical Medicine 
and Hygiene, vol. 73, no. 5, 2005, pp. 926-933.
 
BOX 
2
The links between diarrhoea and HIV
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
10
What are the main forms of  
acute childhood diarrhoea?
There are three main forms of acute childhood  
diarrhoea, all of which are potentially life-threaten-
ing and require diﬀerent treatment courses:  
■ Acute watery diarrhoea includes cholera and is 
associated with signiﬁcant ﬂuid loss and rapid 
dehydration in an infected individual. It usually 
lasts for several hours or days. The pathogens that 
generally cause acute watery diarrhoea include V. 
cholerae or E. coli bacteria, as well as rotavirus. 
■ Bloody diarrhoea, often referred to as dysentery, 
is marked by visible blood in the stools. It is  
associated with intestinal damage and nutrient 
losses in an infected individual. The most  
common cause of bloody diarrhoea is Shigella, 
a bacterial agent that is also the most common 
cause of severe cases. 
■ Persistent diarrhoea is an episode of diarrhoea, 
with or without blood, that lasts at least 14 days. 
Undernourished children and those with other 
illnesses, such as AIDS, are more likely to develop 
persistent diarrhoea. Diarrhoea, in turn, tends to 
worsen their condition. 
Why are children more vulnerable?
Children with poor nutritional status and overall 
health, as well as those exposed to poor environ-
mental conditions, are more susceptible to severe 
diarrhoea and dehydration than healthy children 
(Figure 5). Children are also at greater risk than 
adults of life-threatening dehydration since water 
constitutes a greater proportion of children’s body-
weight. Young children use more water over the 
course of a day given their higher metabolic rates, 
and their kidneys are less able to conserve water 
compared to older children and adults.
How is diarrhoea prevented? 
Reducing childhood diarrhoea requires interven-
tions to make children healthier and less likely to 
develop infections that lead to diarrhoea; clean  
environments that are less likely to transmit  
disease; and the support of communities and  
caregivers in consistently reinforcing healthy  
behaviours and practices over time. 
Nutrition, health and environmental factors all play  
a role in preventing and treating childhood diarrhoea 
Source: Adapted from the Child Health Epidemiology Reference Group, 2009.
TREATMENT
■ Oral rehydration therapy
■ Zinc
■ Continued feeding
 (including breastfeeding)
PREVENTION
Primary prevention (to reduce disease transmission)
■ Rotavirus and measles vaccines
■ Handwashing with soap
■ Improved drinking water supply
■ Community-wide sanitation
Secondary prevention (to reduce disease severity)
■ Promote breastfeeding
■ Vitamin A supplementation
■ Zinc
REDUCE RISK FACTORS
Prevent stunting
Key actions to reduce  
the burden of  
childhood diarrhoea
FIGURE 
5
Diarrhoeal diseases:
The basics 2
11
include: disposing of human excreta in a sanitary 
manner, washing hands with soap, increasing  
access to safe water, improving water quality at  
the source, and treating household water and  
storing it safely. 
Improvements in sanitation reduce the transmission 
of pathogens that cause diarrhoea by preventing 
human faecal matter from contaminating environ-
ments. Improving sanitation facilities has been 
associated with an estimated median reduction in 
diarrhoea incidence of 36 per cent across reviewed 
studies.15  (A recent survey in the British Medical 
Journal showed that their readers believed sanita-
tion to be the most important medical milestone 
since 1840.16) However, a major challenge in this 
regard is scaling up sanitation facilities to the point 
where they are used by an entire community (‘total 
sanitation’). Use of such facilities by all community 
members is necessary to signiﬁcantly reduce  
diarrhoeal disease transmission (Box 3).17 
Many well-known child survival interventions are 
critical to reducing child deaths from diarrhoea. 
They work in two ways: by either directly reducing  
a child’s exposure to the pathogens that cause  
diarrhoea (through the provision of safe drinking  
water, for example) or by reducing a child’s  
susceptibility to severe diarrhoea and dehydration 
(through improved nutrition and overall health).
WATER, SANITATION AND HYGIENE
Improvements in access to safe water and  
adequate sanitation, along with the promotion of 
good hygiene practices (particularly handwashing 
with soap), can help prevent childhood diarrhoea. 
In fact, an estimated 88 per cent of diarrhoeal 
deaths worldwide are attributable to unsafe water, 
inadequate sanitation and poor hygiene.14 
Water, sanitation and hygiene programmes typically 
include a number of interventions that work to  
reduce the number of diarrhoea cases. These 
BOX 
3
Increasing demand to stop  
community-wide open defecation 
12
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Washing one’s hands with soap is another  
important barrier to transmission (Box 4), and has 
been cited as one of the most cost-eﬀective public-
health interventions.19 A number of studies have 
shown that handwashing with soap can reduce 
the incidence of diarrhoeal disease by over 40 per 
cent.20 Accessible and plentiful water has also been 
shown to encourage better hygiene, handwashing 
in particular, although the extent to which access 
to improved water sources reduces diarrhoea rates 
often depends on the type of water source available 
(such as public taps or standpipes, protected dug 
wells or boreholes).21
Interventions to improve water quality at the source, 
along with treatment of household water and  
safe storage systems, have been shown to reduce 
diarrhoea incidence by as much as 47 per cent.22 
Proven and ﬁeld-tested household water treatment 
options that are currently being promoted include 
chlorination, ﬁltration, combined ﬂocculation and  
disinfection, boiling, and solar disinfection. House-
hold water treatment could potentially be scaled up 
quickly and inexpensively in both development and 
emergency situations. It has even become common 
practice in large cities where homes are connected 
to a municipal water supply, since water is often 
polluted between the source and the point of use. 
Until recently, national governments and their develop-
ment partners promoted the use of improved sanitation 
facilities primarily by constructing toilets. Today, a 
fundamentally new approach has been adopted – one 
that relies on the demand of a community to stop open 
defecation, which has proven far more effective. 
Stimulating collective action to stop open defecation is 
now relying on behavioural triggers related to status, 
pride, shame and disgust, rather than relying solely 
on health-related arguments. Another feature of this 
approach is the absence of household subsidies to 
prompt latrine construction. Instead, a community’s 
desire for change tends to propel them into action and 
encourages innovation, mutual support and appropri-
ate local solutions, thus leading to greater ownership 
and sustainability. In some instances, a large number 
of private entrepreneurs have emerged from nearby vil-
lages to match the demand for low-cost latrine parts.18
By generating demand in this way, complete districts, 
such as in Bangladesh and Zambia, have become 
‘open-defecation-free’. Large international develop-
ment agencies such as UNICEF and the World Bank 
Water and Sanitation Programme are now promoting 
similar sanitation approaches in other areas. 
Source: Kar, K., ‘Subsidy or Self-Respect? Participatory total community 
sanitation in Bangladesh’, IDS Working Paper 184, Institute of Develop-
ment Studies, Brighton, UK, 2003. 
Washing one’s hands with soap can reduce rates  
of diarrhoeal disease when carried out at critical  
moments: after using the toilet, after cleaning a  
child’s bottom and before handling food. Research 
suggests that handwashing with soap is effective  
even in overcrowded and highly contaminated  
slums in the developing world. 
Studies have also pointed out that washing hands  
with water alone is much less effective in preventing  
disease than using soap. Soap breaks down grease 
and dirt that carry germs and disease-causing patho-
gens. Using soap also increases the amount of time 
spent washing hands, compared to water alone. Yet 
lack of soap does not seem to be a major barrier to 
handwashing: It has been found that 95 per cent of 
mothers in developing countries have some sort of 
soap product at home.
To better understand ways to promote hygienic  
behaviour, research has been carried out regarding 
consumers’ handwashing habits and factors that  
motivate change. This research shows that key triggers 
for handwashing are feelings of disgust, nurture,  
comfort and desire to conform, rather than health  
concerns alone. These ﬁndings are being used to  
create more effective hygiene programmes. 
Sources: Adapted from: United Nations Children’s Fund, Global 
Handwashing Day (15 October): Planner’s guide, UNICEF, New York, 
2008; Curtis, V., and S. Cairncross, ‘Effect of Washing Hands with Soap 
on Diarrhoea Risk in the Community: A systematic review’, The Lancet 
Infectious Diseases, vol. 3, no. 5, May 2003, pp. 275-281; Ensink, J., 
and V. Curtis, ‘Health Impact of Handwashing with Soap’, <www.lboro.
ac.uk/well/resources/fact-sheets/fact-sheets-htm/Handwashing.htm>, 
accessed June 2009; Scott, B., et al., ‘Health in our Hands, but Not in our 
Heads: Understanding hygiene motivation in Ghana’, Health Policy and 
Planning, vol. 22, no. 4, May 2007, pp. 225-233.
BOX 
4
Handwashing with soap:  
A high-impact, cost-effective intervention
Diarrhoeal diseases:
The basics 2
13
ADEQUATE NUTRITION
Undernourished children are at higher risk of  
suﬀering more severe, prolonged and often more 
frequent episodes of diarrhoea. Repeated bouts of 
diarrhoea also place children at a greater risk of 
worsening nutritional status due to decreased food 
intake and reduced nutrient absorption, combined 
with the child’s increased nutritional requirements 
during repeated episodes. 
Diarrhoea often leads to stunting in children due  
to its association with poor nutrient absorption  
and appetite loss. The risk of stunting in young  
children has been shown to increase signiﬁcantly 
with each episode of diarrhoea,23 and diarrhoea 
control, particularly in the ﬁrst six months of  
life, may help to reduce stunting prevalence  
among children.24 
BREASTFEEDING
Breastmilk contains the nutrients, antioxidants, 
hormones and antibodies needed by a child to 
survive and develop. Infants who are exclusively 
breastfed for the ﬁrst six months of life and  
continue to be breastfed until two years of age and 
beyond develop fewer infections and have less  
severe illnesses than those who are not, even among 
children whose mothers are HIV-positive. This  
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
14
IMMUNIZATION
Immunizations help reduce deaths from diarrhoea 
in two ways: by helping prevent infections that 
cause diarrhoea directly, such as rotavirus, and by 
preventing infections that can lead to diarrhoea as  
a complication of an illness, such as measles. 
Rotavirus is estimated to cause about 40 per cent 
of all hospital admissions due to diarrhoea among 
children under ﬁve years of age worldwide30 – 
leading to some 100 million episodes of acute  
diarrhoea each year that result in 350,000 to 
600,000 child deaths.31 Introduction of rotavirus 
vaccine in countries with the greatest diarrhoea  
burdens, especially in Asia and Africa, must be  
accelerated on a priority basis. Global rotavirus  
vaccine introduction has recently been recommend-
ed by the World Health Organization (WHO).32
Measles is an acute viral infection that is often 
self-limiting. But some children, particularly those 
who are undernourished or have compromised  
immune systems, may experience serious side  
eﬀects, including diarrhoea. Diarrhoea is one  
of the most common causes of death associated 
with measles worldwide. 
protection has been shown to be higher where 
maternal literacy is lower and where sanitation is 
worse.25 Infants who are not breastfed have a sixfold 
greater risk of dying from infectious diseases in the 
ﬁrst two months of life, including from diarrhoea, 
than those who are breastfed.26 
MICRONUTRIENT SUPPLEMENTATION
Vitamin A supplementation is a critical preven-
tive measure, and studies have shown mortality 
reductions ranging from 19 per cent to 54 per cent 
in children receiving supplements.27 This reduction 
is associated in large part with declines in deaths 
due to diarrhoeal diseases and measles. Vitamin 
A supplementation has also been shown to reduce 
the duration, severity and complications associated 
with diarrhoea.28
Adequate zinc intake among children is critical 
for normal growth and development. Recent 
supplementation trials have shown that adequate 
zinc leads to a substantial reduction in childhood 
diarrhoea cases.29
A solution of oral rehydration salts (ORS) is a simple,  
inexpensive and life-saving remedy that prevents  
dehydration among children with diarrhoea. How  
does it work?
In a healthy child, the small intestines absorb water and 
electrolytes from the digestive tract so that these nutrient-
rich ﬂuids may be transported to other parts of the body 
through the bloodstream. In a sick child, diarrhoea- 
causing pathogens damage the intestines – causing an 
excessive amount of water and electrolytes to be secreted 
rather than being absorbed. When the ORS solution  
reaches the small intestines, the sodium and glucose in 
the mixture are transported together across the lining of  
the intestines, and the sodium, which is now in higher 
concentrations in the intestines, promotes water absorp-
tion back into the body from the gut. The discovery that 
sodium and glucose are transported together across  
the small intestines through a co-transport mechanism 
has been called “potentially the most important medical 
advance of the 20th century.”35 The development of 
ORS is a direct result of this discovery. 
Sources: –, ‘Water with Sugar and Salt’, The Lancet, vol. 312, no. 8084, 
1978, pp. 300-301; Rehydration.org, ‘Why is Rehydration so Important and 
How it Works to Save Children’s Lives’, <http ://rehydrate.org/rehydration>, 
accessed June 2009. 
 
BOX 
5
Oral rehydration salts: One of the most important medical advances of the 20th century
Diarrhoeal diseases:
The basics 2
15
How is diarrhoea diagnosed? 
Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of  
childhood diarrhoea are set out in the Integrated 
Management of Childhood Illness handbook.33 
Diagnosis is based on clinical symptoms, including  
the extent of dehydration, the type of diarrhoea 
exhibited, whether blood is visible in the stool, 
and the duration of the diarrhoea episode. Treat-
ment regimens diﬀer based on the outcomes of this 
clinical assessment. Microbiological culture and 
microscopy are not necessary to diagnose diarrhoea 
and initiate treatment, even in high-income coun-
tries, although these tools can help identify speciﬁc 
pathogens for outbreak investigations. 
It is important that caregivers recognize the  
symptoms that require immediate attention from 
appropriate health personnel, including trained 
community health workers. These symptoms  
include dehydration, blood in the stool, profuse  
and persistent diarrhoea and repeated vomiting. 
How is diarrhoea treated? 
The latest recommendations for treating childhood 
diarrhoea in the developing world are set out in a 
UNICEF and WHO joint statement34 issued in 2004. 
These interventions are proven, aﬀordable and  
relatively straightforward to implement.
Since the 1970s, oral rehydration therapy has been 
the cornerstone of treatment programmes to prevent 
life-threatening dehydration associated with diar-
rhoea (Box 5). Fluid replacement should begin at 
home and be administered by the caregiver at the 
start of the diarrhoea episode. A solution made from 
oral rehydration salts (ORS) is the ‘gold standard’ 
of oral rehydration therapy, and a new formula has 
been developed (known as low-osmolarity ORS)  
that improves overall outcomes when compared 
to the original version (Box 6). UNICEF and WHO 
recommend that all children with diarrhoea have 
access to this new ORS formula; making it widely 
available to children in need will require innovative 
delivery strategies.
When ORS are not available, other ﬂuids will also 
work to prevent dehydration among children with 
diarrhoea, although they are not as eﬀective in 
treating children who have become dehydrated. 
Such ﬂuids (which many countries have designated 
as ‘recommended homemade ﬂuids’) can be  
For more than two decades, WHO and UNICEF  
recommended a single ORS formula for treating all types 
of diarrhoea among all age groups. During this time, 
researchers also worked to improve the formula to provide 
additional clinical beneﬁts to patients. Particularly  
important, in addition to preventing dehydration, was 
making ORS more acceptable to caregivers who sought  
to reduce their child’s diarrhoea symptoms. 
In 2004, WHO and UNICEF began recommending that  
countries use and manufacture a new ORS formula  
(known as low-osmolarity ORS) to treat all types of  
diarrhoea among all age groups. This improved formula 
was shown to be as safe and effective as the previous 
version, but also had other important clinical beneﬁts. 
Stool output and vomiting decreased in children by about 
20 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively, when compared 
to children using the original ORS formula. Unscheduled 
intravenous therapy also declined by 33 per cent among 
children with diarrhoea using this new remedy. 
Source: World Health Organization, The Treatment of Diarrhoea: 
A manual for physicians and other senior health workers, WHO, 
Geneva, 2005. 
BOX 
6
Low-osmolarity ORS: A life-saving remedy just got better
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
16
prepared at home using readily available and  
low-cost ingredients. Examples of rehydrating  
ﬂuids include cereal-based drinks made from a  
thin gruel of rice, maize, potato or other readily 
available low-cost grain or root crop the family has 
at home. Breastmilk is also an excellent drink for 
ﬂuid replacement and should continue to be given 
to infants with diarrhoea simultaneously with  
other oral rehydration solutions.
If ORS or other appropriate ﬂuids are not available, 
increased amounts of almost any ﬂuid could also 
help to prevent dehydration. Continuing to feed the 
child during the diarrhoea episode, while providing 
oral rehydration therapy, further supports the  
absorption of ﬂuids from the gut into the blood-
stream to prevent dehydration. Children receiving 
food during the diarrhoea episode are also more 
likely to maintain their nutritional status and their 
ability to ﬁght infection. 
A recent and important development in diarrhoea 
treatment is the addition of zinc to the regimen. 
Box 7 details the added value of zinc in diarrhoea 
treatment, and its eﬀectiveness in reducing both the 
duration and severity of diarrhoea episodes as well 
as reducing stool volume and the need for advanced 
medical care. Children receiving zinc often have 
greater appetites and are more active during the 
diarrhoea episode; its use has also been associated 
with increased ORS uptake. The provision of zinc 
tablets by health workers may also reduce the de-
mand from caregivers for other less eﬀective drugs, 
such as antibiotics and antidiarrhoeal medications, 
which should not be routinely administered. 
Zinc is critical for overall health, growth and development. 
It also supports proper functioning of the immune system. 
Though widely found in protein-rich and other food 
sources, zinc deﬁciency is widespread throughout the  
developing world and has been associated with higher 
rates of infectious diseases, including diarrhoea, and 
deaths from these illnesses. Zinc stores are further  
depleted during diarrhoea episodes, and supplementation 
as a part of treatment programmes is critical for replenish-
ing the body’s reserves – helping children to recover  
from illness and stay healthy afterwards.
Clinical studies have shown that a 10- to 14-day treat-
ment course with zinc effectively reduces the duration  
and severity of both persistent and acute diarrhoea.  
Zinc has been associated with a 25 per cent reduction  
in the duration of acute diarrhoea, as well as a 40  
per cent reduction in treatment failure and death in  
persistent diarrhoea.
The recent introduction of zinc tablets into large-scale  
diarrhoea treatment programmes in India, Mali and  
Pakistan suggests that it may be even more effective  
than clinical trial results indicate. Zinc appears to  
increase ORS uptake and reduces inappropriate drug use 
with antibiotics and antidiarrhoeal medications. Children 
receiving zinc tablets appeared to recover more quickly, 
had increased strength and appetites, and were less ill 
than other children in their communities. In fact, a Malian 
mother noted that her son had “gained strength and 
energy unlike ever before,” which echoed the sentiments 
of many other caregivers. 
Sources: World Health Organization, Department of Child and Adolescent 
Health and Development (CAH), ‘CAH Progress Report Highlights 2008’, 
WHO, Geneva, 2009; Bhandari, N., et al., ‘Effectiveness of Zinc Supplemen-
tation plus Oral Rehydration Salts Compared with Oral Rehydration Salts 
Alone as a Treatment for Acute Diarrhea in a Primary Care Setting: A cluster 
randomized trial’, Pediatrics, vol. 121, no. 5, 2008, pp. e1279-e1285; Winch, 
P.J., et al., ‘Cluster-randomized Programme Effectiveness Study of Community 
Case Management with Zinc for Childhood Diarrhoea in Southern Mali’, Bul-
letin of the World Health Organization (in press); World Health Organization, 
Department of Child and Adolescent Health and Development, ‘CAH Meeting 
Report: Consultation to review the results of the large effectiveness studies 
examining the addition of zinc to the current case management of diarrhoea 
(India, Mali and Pakistan)’, 30-31 January 2008. 
 
BOX 
7
Zinc: Critical to diarrhoea treatment, but largely unavailable in developing countries  
Diarrhoeal diseases:
The basics 2
17
Preventing and treating  
childhood diarrhoea: 
Where we stand today 
3
SECTION 
18
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Preventing and treating childhood diarrhoea:
Where we stand today 3
Nearly 1 in 4 people in developing countries practises open defecation
Source: World Health Organization/United Nations Children’s Fund, Progress on Drinking Water and Sanitation: Special focus on sanitation, UNICEF, New York, 2008.
Note: Improved sanitation facilities refer to (1) ﬂush or pour-ﬂush to a piped water system, septic tank or pit latrine (2) ventilated improved pit latrine (3) pit latrine with slab (4) composting toilet. 
Unimproved sanitation refers to (1) ﬂush or pour-ﬂush to elsewhere (2) pit latrine without slab or open pit (3) bucket (4) hanging toilet or hanging latrine (5) no facilities or bush or ﬁeld.
FIGURE 
6
19
Prevention 
Water, sanitation and hygiene
Improving access to safe drinking water and  
adequate sanitation, as well as promoting good  
hygiene, are key components in preventing diarrhoea.  
Yet a recent WHO/UNICEF report36 indicated that, 
in 2006 (the latest year for which data are avail-
able), an estimated 2.5 billion people were lacking 
improved sanitation facilities. Moreover, nearly 1 
in 4 people in developing countries were practising 
indiscriminate or open defecation (Figures 6 and 7). 
To further compound the problem, children’s faeces 
are often unsafely disposed of in many developing 
countries.37 Children’s stools tend to carry a higher 
pathogen load than adults’, and many children play 
in areas in which stools are found. Safely disposing 
of them is therefore critical for reducing the number 
of diarrhoea cases. 
Between 1990 and 2006, the proportion of the 
developing world’s population using an improved 
drinking water source rose from 71 per cent to 84 
per cent (Figure 8). Still, almost 1 billion people lack 
access to improved drinking water sources, and 
many households do not treat or safely store their 
household water supplies. Rural access to improved 
drinking water sources remains low, and many 
people using an improved source must still walk 
long distances to fetch water, thereby reducing the 
This section provides an update on how well countries and regions are doing in 
making available key measures to prevent and treat childhood diarrhoea. 
Percentage distribution of the population using different types of sanitation facilities, by region, 2006
South Asia
Sub-Saharan Africa
Middle East & North Africa
East Asia & Paciﬁc
Latin America & Caribbean
CEE/CIS
 
Developing countries
Industrialized countries
Least developed countries
World
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
33
31
73
66
78
89
53
100
33
62
10
18
7
6
2
9
13
8
8
23
18
20
9
9
15
24
12
49
28
9
7
7
23
30
18
Improved             Sharing improved             Unimproved             Open defecation
More than 4 out of 5 children who are underweight  
for their age live in Africa or South Asia
Globally, 1.2 billion people practise open defecation,  
83 per cent of whom live in 13 countries
Source: World Health Organization/United Nations Children’s Fund, Progress on Drinking 
Water and Sanitation: Special focus on sanitation, UNICEF, New York, 2008.
Source: World Health Organization/United Nations Children’s Fund, Progress on Drinking 
Water and Sanitation: Special focus on sanitation, UNICEF, New York, 2008. 
Note: Improved drinking water sources refer to (1) piped water into dwelling, plot or yard (2) 
public tap/stand pipe (3) tube well or borehole (4) protected dug well (5) protected spring 
(6) rainwater collection. Unimproved drinking water sources refer to (1) unprotected dug 
well (2) unprotected spring (3) cart with small tank/drum (4) tanker truck (5) surface water 
(river, dam, lake, pond, stream, canal, irrigation channel) (6) bottled water (which is only 
considered improved when the household uses water from an improved source for cooking 
and personal hygiene).  
FIGURE 
7
FIGURE 
8
More than 80 per cent of the developing world’s 
population use an improved drinking water source
FIGURE 
9
20
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
amount collected. While coverage is higher in  
urban areas, population growth presents a growing 
challenge in further increasing improved drinking  
water coverage. The lack of improved drinking 
water sources also tends to curtail personal hygiene 
practices, including handwashing. 
Data on handwashing with soap are not available 
through major national-level household surveys 
due to concerns about the validity of information 
provided by responders. However, proxy indicators 
such as the availability of soap and other commodi-
ties in the household for use in handwashing  
will be added to the next round of surveys, includ-
ing the UNICEF-supported Multiple Indicator  
Cluster Surveys. 
Adequate nutrition
Undernourished children are more likely to suﬀer 
from diarrhoea and its consequences, which, in 
turn, increases their chances of worsening nutri-
tional status. Today, 129 million children under the 
age of ﬁve in the developing world are underweight 
for their age. Together, Africa and South Asia  
account for more than 80 per cent of total under-
weight children (25 per cent and 57 per cent,  
respectively) (Figure 9). About 40 per cent of chil-
Percentage of children under ﬁve who are underweight (WHO Child Growth  
Standards), by region, 2003-2008
Source: United Nations Children’s Fund, global databases, 2009 (based on WHO Child 
Growth Standards).
Population practising open defecation, by countries with the highest 
numbers, 2006
Trends in the percentage of the population using improved drinking water 
sources, by region, 2006 
57%
South Asia
ASIA
25%
Africa
6%
Rest of the world
100
80
60
40
20
0
1990                     2006
Sub-Saharan 
Africa
Middle East & 
North Africa
South Asia
East Asia & 
Paciﬁc
Latin America 
& Caribbean
CEE/CIS
Developing 
countries
58
87
87
88
92
94
84
48
86
71
72
83
91
71
12% 
East Asia & Paciﬁc
India 
665 million
Rest of the world 
205 million
Indonesia  
66 million
Ethiopia  
52 million
Pakistan  
50 million
China  
37 million
Nigeria  
29 million
Brazil  
18 million
Bangladesh  
18 million
Sudan  
14 million
Nepal  
14 million
Niger  
11 million
Viet Nam  
10 million
Mozambique  
10 million  
Preventing and treating childhood diarrhoea:
Where we stand today 3
Just 37 per cent of infants in developing countries 
are breastfed for the ﬁrst six months of life 
The proportion of children fully protected by  
vitamin A has increased fourfold since 1999
Source: United Nations Children’s Fund, The State of the World’s Children 2010, UNICEF, 
New York (forthcoming). Data are insufﬁcient for East Asia & Paciﬁc.
FIGURE 
10
FIGURE 
11
21
dren under ﬁve years of age are stunted in Africa, 
and nearly half in South Asia.
Breastfeeding 
Over the past decade, there has been some progress 
in exclusive breastfeeding rates among infants in 
the ﬁrst six months of life across the developing 
world, and particularly in Africa. Despite these  
advances, overall levels remain low, and only 37  
per cent of infants in developing countries are  
exclusively breastfed for the ﬁrst six months of  
life (Figure 10). 
Micronutrient supplementation 
Vitamin A supplementation rates have increased 
signiﬁcantly in recent years. Coverage of children 
aged 6-59 months with at least one dose of vitamin 
A per year has increased by nearly 50 per cent since 
1999. Moreover, between 1999 and 2007, coverage 
of children considered fully protected by vitamin 
A – that is, receiving two doses per year – increased 
nearly fourfold in developing countries (Figure 11). 
Progress was made possible through innovative 
strategies that included combined delivery with 
other high-impact interventions for health and 
nutrition. Reaching the poorest children and those 
living in rural areas, who are most at risk of vitamin 
A deﬁciency, remains the greatest challenge. 
Zinc is important for normal growth and develop-
ment and for reducing childhood diarrhoea cases. 
Yet data on improving children’s zinc status as a key 
prevention measure are not available.
Immunization
Only a few, mostly high- and middle-income  
countries include rotavirus vaccine in their routine 
immunization schedules. WHO recently recom-
mended introduction of the vaccine in all routine 
schedules, and data to monitor its coverage in many 
countries are expected to follow implementation. 
Deaths due to measles have declined rapidly in 
recent years. Between 2000 and 2007, global mortal-
ity attributed to measles was down by 74 per cent.38 
This decrease in deaths is generally credited to in-
creases in routine measles immunization coverage, 
coupled with improvements in follow-up campaigns 
that provide second opportunities for children to get 
immunized. However, more work is needed to reach 
the UNICEF and WHO goal of reducing measles 
mortality by 90 per cent by 2010.39 
Percentage of infants who are exclusively breastfed for the ﬁrst six months 
of life, by region, 2003-2008
Percentage of children ages 6-59 months receiving at least one dose and two doses 
(fully protected) of vitamin A supplements, developing countries, 1999-2007
Source: United Nations Children’s Fund, global databases, 2009.
50
45
41
32
30
27
37
16
59
36
61
52
75
72
72
62
South Asia
Latin America & Caribbean
Africa
Middle East & North Africa
CEE/CIS
 
Developing countries
1999
2001
2003
2005
2007
0
20
40
60
70
100
100
80
60
40
20
0
At least one dose             Two doses (fully protected)
Treatment recommendations and indicators to  
monitor coverage have changed over time 
Different treatment indicators show different levels 
of coverage (using Bangladesh as an example)
Sources: Bangladesh Demographic and Health Survey 2004, Multiple Indicator Cluster 
Survey 2006, and Demographic and Health Survey 2007. Data from these surveys were  
re-analysed to conform to the different indicator deﬁnitions used over time.
Note: UNICEF and WHO currently recommend the use of zinc in treating childhood 
diarrhoea, but data regarding coverage are limited.  Questions on zinc are now included 
in some recent Demographic and Health Surveys, and will be included in the next round 
of Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys. 
FIGURE 
13
FIGURE 
12
* Zinc is not included since data are largely unavailable.
22
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
both the overall recommended treatment package –
oral rehydration therapy and continued feeding – as 
well as its individual components (ORS, appropriate 
homemade ﬂuids, increased ﬂuids and continued 
feeding). Zinc coverage is not assessed since data 
are largely unavailable. 
Recommended treatment package:* 
ORT with continued feeding
In developing countries, only 39 per cent of children 
under ﬁve with diarrhoea receive the recommended 
treatment (ORT with continued feeding) to prevent 
dehydration and worsening nutritional status. 
Africa has the lowest levels of treatment coverage 
(35 per cent), followed by South Asia (37 per cent) 
and the Middle East & North Africa (39 per cent). 
East Asia and the Paciﬁc (excluding China) have 
the highest treatment coverage levels, at 55 per cent 
(Figure 14). 
Boys and girls receive appropriate care at similar 
rates. Children in urban areas (42 per cent) are more 
likely to receive the recommended treatment than 
those living in rural areas (38 per cent). Similarly, 
children from the wealthiest households (40 per 
cent) are more likely to receive the recommended 
treatment than those from the poorest households 
(34 per cent) (Figure 15). 
Treatment 
Since the 1970s, oral rehydration therapy, pioneered 
by the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease 
Research, Bangladesh (Box 8), has been the main-
stay of diarrhoea treatment programmes. However, 
treatment recommendations have changed over 
time to reﬂect a better understanding of what works 
to reduce child deaths from diarrhoea as well as 
new insights into treatment feasibility.40 
These changes in treatment recommendations have 
subsequently led to changes in how treatment  
coverage has been monitored (Figure 12) and the 
indicators used to measure progress. These various 
treatment indicators may show markedly diﬀerent 
coverage and, in some cases, diﬀerent assessments 
of trends over time (Figure 13). There are other  
challenges in monitoring treatment coverage, which 
are discussed in the section entitled ‘Data used in 
this report’ on page 37. Despite these challenges, 
the data presented here are useful indications of 
how well regions and countries are doing in treating 
childhood diarrhoea. 
This section assesses coverage of key interventions 
to prevent dehydration and worsening nutritional 
status among children with diarrhoea. It includes 
TIME PERIOD
RECOMMENDED TREATMENT
INDICATOR FOR MONITORING  
TREATMENT COVERAGE
2004 to  
present
Oral rehydration therapy 
with continued feeding
Proportion of children under ﬁve 
with diarrhoea receiving oral 
rehydration therapy (an ORS 
packet or recommended home-
made ﬂuids or increased ﬂuids) 
and continued feeding
Early 1990s 
to early 
2000s
Increased ﬂuids and 
continued feeding (known 
as home management of 
diarrhoea)
Proportion of children under 
ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving 
increased ﬂuids and continued 
feeding
Late 1980s 
to early 
1990s
Oral rehydration salts or 
recommended homemade 
ﬂuids (RHF)
Proportion of children under ﬁve 
with diarrhoea receiving an ORS 
packet or RHF
36
75
70
81
52
49
28
38
68
2004
2005
2006
2007
100
80
60
40
20
0
ORT (ORS packet or RHF or increased ﬂuids) and continued feeding  
[2004 to present]
Increased ﬂuids and continued feeding [early 1990s to early 2000s]
ORS or recommended homemade ﬂuids [late 1980s to early 1990s]
Preventing and treating childhood diarrhoea:
Where we stand today 3
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving oral rehydration 
therapy (ORS packet or recommended homemade ﬂuids or increased ﬂuids)  
and continued feeding, by region, 2005-2008
Source: United Nations Children’s Fund, The State of the World’s Children 2010, 
UNICEF, New York (forthcoming). Data are insufﬁcient for Latin America & Caribbean 
and CEE/CIS.
* Excludes China
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving oral 
rehydration therapy (ORS packet or recommended homemade ﬂuids 
or increased ﬂuids) and continued feeding, developing countries,  
by background characteristics, 2005-2008
Source: UNICEF global diarrhoea databases, 2009.
Too few children with diarrhoea receive  
the recommended treatment
The International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, 
Bangladesh is an internationally acclaimed institute that 
is considered a leader in diarrhoea research. The Centre 
has been saving lives from acute diarrhoea since it opened 
a cholera research laboratory in Dhaka in 1960. In 1968, 
Bangladeshi researchers, supported by the United States 
Agency for International Development, contributed to 
the discovery of the ORS solution. Ten years later, WHO 
launched a worldwide campaign to reduce diarrhoea  
mortality, with ORS as one of the principal elements of 
that programme.
The International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research 
treats over 100,000 people for diarrhoeal diseases and 
related nutritional and respiratory problems each year. 
Without such treatment, many of these people would die. 
The Centre’s hospital now saves the vast majority of its 
patients; most are children and almost all are undernour-
ished, coming from the lowest strata of society.41
The Centre strongly advocates the use of ORS, and  
Bangladesh became the ﬁrst country to scale up oral  
rehydration therapy through a national programme.  
Oral rehydration salts are distributed to all corners of  
the country and are now a household name; they are  
also available for purchase without a prescription. The 
hospital promotes the active participation of mothers  
in the diarrhoea treatment process, particularly in  
the administration of ORS, and gives women and  
families the training and conﬁdence they need to  
treat diarrhoea themselves. 
The Centre was also involved in early studies that  
showed that zinc supplements, used in conjunction with 
ORS, protect the intestinal lining and signiﬁcantly reduce 
the duration of diarrhoeal episodes as well as the risk of 
recurrence. Recently, the Centre has worked to scale up a 
programme to provide zinc tablets to every child in need.
At the same time, the Centre emphasizes prevention, 
which is at the heart of any long-term response. The 
Government of Bangladesh has focused on community-led 
approaches and works through a wide network of hygiene 
promoters to support behaviour change for improved 
hygiene, safe sanitation and water. These programmes 
are expected to reach more than 30 million people in 
Bangladesh, who will receive assistance in the installation 
of drinking water and sanitation facilities and hygiene 
education. This is one of the largest intensive sanitation, 
hygiene and water programmes implemented in a  
developing country.
Source: Special contribution from the International Centre for Diarrhoeal 
Disease Research, Bangladesh, 2009; United Nations Children’s Fund, 
Habits for a Lifetime, UNICEF, Dhaka, 2008.
FIGURE 
14
FIGURE 
15
BOX 
8
The International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh: A pioneer in effective diarrhoea control 
Children in poor households and rural areas are  
less likely to receive the recommended treatment
23
55
39
37
35
39
East Asia & Paciﬁc*
Middle East & North Africa
South Asia
Africa
 
Developing countries
Boys 
Girls
Urban
Rural
Richest 
Fourth
Middle
Second
Poorest
0
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
20
40
60
70
100
40
38
42
38
40
40
37
37
34
Source: UNICEF global diarrhoea databases, 2009. Data are based on the latest available 
data during the period 2005-2008. Data are insufﬁcient for Latin America & Caribbean  
and CEE/CIS.
* Excludes China
Source: UNICEF global diarrhoea databases, 2009. Trend analysis is based on data for a 
subset of African countries with two or more comparable data points for periods around 2000 
and 2007. This subset of countries covers 75 per cent (pneumonia), 50 per cent (diarrhoea) 
and 57 per cent (malaria) of children under age ﬁve in Africa.
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving at 
least one ORS packet during the illness, by region, 2005-2008
Too few children receive ORS 
to treat their diarrhoea
FIGURE 
17
FIGURE 
16
Little progress has been made in the treatment 
of major childhood illnesses in Africa
24
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Trend analysis is limited by the lack of comparable 
data for the treatment recommendations from  
the 1990s (see section entitled ‘Data used in this 
report’). However, limited data for a subset of devel-
oping countries with comparable trend data since 
around 2000 suggest little progress in expanding 
coverage with the recommended treatment. 
In Africa, where nearly half of child deaths  
due to diarrhoea occur, these limited data also  
suggest little or no progress since 2000 in expand-
ing treatment coverage for diarrhoea and other 
major childhood illnesses, including malaria and 
pneumonia (Figure 16). The lack of progress in the 
case management of these diseases underscores the 
urgent need to strengthen integrated, community-
based treatment of major childhood illnesses. This 
will require training for caregivers and community 
health workers who are linked to a functioning and 
responsive health-care system. 
ORS packets, including low-osmolarity ORS
Only one third (33 per cent) of children with diar-
rhoea in developing countries receive ORS to treat 
their illness. This is true in almost every developing  
region of the world. Africa has the lowest levels 
of ORS use, at 29 per cent, and East Asia and the 
Paciﬁc (excluding China) has the highest levels, 
although still reaching only 38 per cent of children 
in need (Figure 17). 
Boys and girls are equally likely to receive ORS to 
treat diarrhoea. Children in urban areas (39 per 
cent) are more likely to receive ORS than those  
living in rural areas (31 per cent). Similarly, children 
from the wealthiest families are 1.5 times as likely 
to receive ORS to treat their diarrhoea as the poorest 
children (Figure 18). 
There has also been little or no progress in increas-
ing the use of ORS among children with diarrhoea 
since 2000. This is true for every region with data, 
including Africa and South Asia, the regions with 
the greatest diarrhoea burdens (Figure 19). 
The new ORS formula (known as low-osmolarity 
ORS) is the ‘gold standard’ for treating childhood 
diarrhoea, as well as treating dehydration once it 
occurs. However, data on the use of low-osmolarity 
ORS speciﬁcally are not available through house-
hold surveys. 
Malaria (antimalarial treatment)
Pneumonia (care-seeking behaviour)
Diarrhoea (ORT with continued feeding)
2000
2007
50
40
30
20
10
0
32
39
38
33
41
38
33
32
29
33
East Asia & Paciﬁc*
South Asia
Middle East & North Africa
Africa
Developing countries
0
20
40
60
80
100
Preventing and treating childhood diarrhoea:
Where we stand today 3
Poor children and those living in rural areas 
are less likely to use ORS to treat diarrhoea
There has been little or no progress 
in the use of ORS to treat diarrhoea 
Source: UNICEF global diarrhoea databases, 2009. 
Source:  UNICEF global diarrhoea databases, 2009. Trend analysis is based on data for a 
subset of developing countries with two or more comparable data points for around 2000 
and 2007. Data are insufﬁcient for Latin America & Caribbean and CEE/CIS.
* Excludes China
Trends in the percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving 
at least one ORS packet during the illness, by region, 2000 and 2007
FIGURE 
18
FIGURE 
19
25
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving at least one  
ORS packet during the illness, developing countries, by background  
characteristics, 2005-2008
Which countries have a national policy on the use of low-osmolarity ORS to treat childhood diarrhoea?
Boys 
Girls
Urban
Rural
Richest 
Fourth
Middle
Second
Poorest
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
34
32
39
31
42
36
33
30
28
100
80
60
40
20
0
33
30
34
28
37
28
25
28
32
34
Developing 
countries
Africa
South  
Asia
Middle East &  
North Africa
East Asia & 
Paciﬁc*
Source: Fischer Walker, C.L., Personal communication, 2009.
The boundaries and names shown and the designations used on this map do not imply ofﬁcial endorsement or  
acceptance by the United Nations. Dotted line represents approximately the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir  
agreed upon by India and Pakistan. The ﬁnal status of Jammu and Kashmir has not yet been agreed upon by the parties. 
MAP 
1
Countries with a national policy promoting the use of low-osmolarity ORS for treating childhood diarrhoea (as of May 2009)
2000                     2007
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving more to drink than 
usual during the illness, by region, 2005-2008
Source: UNICEF global diarrhoea databases, 2009. Data are based on the latest available 
data during the period 2005-2008. Data are insufﬁcient for Latin America & Caribbean and 
CEE/CIS.
* Excludes China
Number (in millions ) of ORS packets procured by UNICEF, 2000-2008
Source: UNICEF Supply Division, 2009.
Note: Low-osmolarity ORS was proposed by UNICEF and WHO in 2003 and procurement 
of this new formula began at this time. Data exclude local procurement by India and  
Bangladesh, which is signiﬁcant (up to 10 million packets per year).
UNICEF has procured more than  
350 million ORS packets since 2000
Less than one quarter of children with  
diarrhoea drink more ﬂuids of any type
FIGURE 
20
FIGURE
21
26
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
2008, UNICEF purchased more than 50 million 
packets, and remains one of the largest interna-
tional procurers. There is an urgent need to ensure 
that all manufacturers produce low-osmolarity ORS, 
since the pace of progress in changing over to the 
new formula has been slow.
Appropriate homemade ﬂuids
If ORS are not available to treat diarrhoea, a set of 
appropriate homemade ﬂuids are also eﬀective in 
preventing dehydration. Data collected through 
household surveys to monitor this indicator  
are problematic, however, and are therefore not  
assessed in this section. 
Diﬀerent countries have diﬀerent policies on what 
constitutes an appropriate homemade ﬂuid, and 
these policies are not always clearly deﬁned or  
readily available to survey implementers. The  
Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys and Demographic 
and Health Surveys include questions on whether 
a child with diarrhoea received a government-
recommended home ﬂuid. The question should be 
customized for individual countries, prior to start-
ing survey work, and reﬂect national guidelines. 
Low-osmolarity ORS
Though UNICEF and the WHO now recommend the 
use of low-osmolarity ORS for treating childhood 
diarrhoea, only 66 countries around the world  
currently have explicit national policies to that  
eﬀect (Map 1). Indeed, an important ﬁrst step  
to increasing coverage of this intervention is to 
ensure that national guidelines are established 
that promote their use. But this is just a ﬁrst step. 
Policies will need to be coupled with strengthened 
distribution systems and new delivery strategies  
to make a real diﬀerence in the availability of the 
new formula to children with diarrhoea. Commu-
nication strategies are also needed to ensure that 
families understand and accept ORS as a key  
treatment component. 
There have been major increases in the procurement 
of ORS, which may lead to higher coverage levels 
in coming years. Though information from private 
manufacturers is not readily available, UNICEF 
alone has procured more than 350 million ORS 
packets since 2000 (Figure 20). Procurement of  
low-osmolarity ORS started in 2003, and over 80 
countries have received the new formulation. In 
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
80
60
40
20
0
28.1
32.2
42.6
28.6
53.7
23.8
43.2
42.8
60.3
30
25
25
16
22
East Asia & Paciﬁc*
Africa
Middle East & North Africa
South Asia
Developing countries
0
20
40
60
80
100
Preventing and treating childhood diarrhoea:
Where we stand today 3
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving either much less 
food than usual or none at all during the illness, by region, 2005-2008
Source: UNICEF global diarrhoea databases, 2009. Data are based on the latest available 
data during the period 2005-2008. Data are insufﬁcient for Latin America & Caribbean and 
CEE/CIS.
 * Excludes China
Trends in the percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving 
more to drink than usual during the illness, by region, 2000 and 2007
Source:  UNICEF global diarrhoea databases, 2009. Trend analysis is based on data for a 
subset of developing countries with two or more comparable data points for around 2000 
and 2007. Data are insufﬁcient for Latin America & Caribbean, CEE/CIS and Middle East & 
North Africa.
* Excludes China
Every region with data has seen declines in the share 
of children with diarrhoea who are drinking more ﬂuids 
Nearly one third of children with diarrhoea 
receive much less food than usual or none at all 
FIGURE 
22
FIGURE 
23
27
However, this is not always done and, in many  
countries, interviewers ask the generic question 
about the use of a government-recommended home 
ﬂuid, which then leaves respondents to deﬁne for 
themselves whether the ﬂuid was, in fact, a recom-
mended one. This could lead to major data quality 
issues. Strengthened eﬀorts are now under way to 
customize these survey questions in the future. 
Increased ﬂuids 
When ORS and appropriate ﬂuids are not available, 
increasing the intake of almost any ﬂuids could also 
help to prevent dehydration caused by diarrhoea. Yet  
less than one quarter (22 per cent) of children with 
diarrhoea in developing countries drink more ﬂuids 
of any type during their illness (Figure 21). These 
low levels underscore the urgent need to educate 
caregivers regarding current treatment recommen-
dations, including the need to provide increased 
amounts of ﬂuids to children with diarrhoea. 
Every region with data has seen slight declines 
since 2000 in the proportion of children who receive 
more to drink during episodes of diarrhoea (Figure 
22). Again, lack of progress on an intervention that 
is readily available to all caregivers highlights the 
urgent need to expand education and behaviour 
change programmes to encourage appropriate  
home management of diarrhoea. 
Continued feeding
Nearly one third of children with diarrhoea in  
developing countries receive either much less food 
or none at all during their illness – placing far too 
many children at risk of worsening nutritional  
status (Figure 23). Limited data are available to  
assess trends over time for continued feeding due to 
changes in survey questions around the year 2000 
(see section entitled ‘Data used in this report’).
Zinc
Limited information from household surveys is  
currently available on the use of zinc to treat  
childhood diarrhoea. Questions on the use of  
zinc supplements have recently been included in 
some Demographic and Health Surveys and will  
be incorporated into the next round of UNICEF- 
supported Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys,  
which are scheduled for 2009-2010. 
23
29
Developing 
countries
Middle East & North Africa
Africa
South Asia
East Asia & Paciﬁc*
Developing countries
0
20
40
60
80
100
100
80
60
40
20
0
17
26
31
20
35
41
South  
Asia
Africa
East Asia & 
Paciﬁc*
20
29
36
39
31
2000                     2007
Which countries have a national policy on the use of zinc for treating childhood diarrhoea?
MAP 
2
Source: Fischer Walker, C.L., Personal communication, 2009. 
The boundaries and names shown and the designations used on this map do not imply ofﬁcial endorsement or  
acceptance by the United Nations. Dotted line represents approximately the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir  
agreed upon by India and Pakistan. The ﬁnal status of Jammu and Kashmir has not yet been agreed upon by the parties. 
Countries with a national policy on the use of zinc for treating childhood diarrhoea (as of May 2009)
28
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
An important ﬁrst step to increasing zinc coverage 
is ensuring that national guidelines are established 
that promote its use. Yet only 46 countries world-
wide currently have explicit national policies that 
promote the use of zinc in treating childhood diar-
rhoea (Map 2). Beyond changing policies, countries 
must overcome implementation challenges to scale 
up the use of this life-saving treatment, and develop 
eﬀective communication strategies to promote the 
use of zinc (Box 9).
At the same time, UNICEF and partners are working 
closely with manufacturers to increase future  
availability of zinc tablets. UNICEF is the largest 
buyer of such tablets, representing over 80 per cent 
of international procurement.42 UNICEF procurement 
of zinc tablets started in 2006 and has increased 
signiﬁcantly since that time (Figure 24). In 2006, 
UNICEF procured 20.5 million zinc tablets; the ﬁgure 
rose to 73.7 million in 2007 and 157.9 million tablets 
in 2008. In 2008, zinc tablets were distributed by 
UNICEF to 38 countries – a signiﬁcant increase from 
the 11 countries to which zinc was distributed in 
2006. Despite this major progress, global zinc  
availability is still dismally low compared to the 
global need.
Preventing and treating childhood diarrhoea:
Where we stand today 3
UNICEF procurement of zinc tablets  
has increased signiﬁcantly since 2006,  
but still falls far short of global need
Number (in millions) of zinc tablets procured by UNICEF, 2006-2008
Source: UNICEF Supply Division, 2009.
Five years after UNICEF and WHO issued a joint statement 
recommending a new ORS formula and zinc treatment for 
diarrhoea, these products are largely unavailable in most 
developing countries. Why? 
For a number of years, there was one zinc product that 
met quality standards for international procurement by 
UNICEF. Zinc is now procured by UNICEF, governments and 
other agencies and is manufactured locally in a hand-
ful of countries. However, meeting policy and regulatory 
requirements for importing a new product continues to 
present challenges for zinc introduction in many countries. 
Moreover, changing child health treatment recommenda-
tions nationally can also be difﬁcult.
Compounding the problem is the fact that initial start-up 
funds for these new treatments can be signiﬁcant, and 
beyond the scope of regular health budgets. In addition, 
many countries are hesitant to buy zinc because they have 
little experience with it as part of diarrhoea management 
programmes: They are unsure of the demand and are  
reluctant to devote funds to one-time start-up activities, 
such as developing training materials. 
A few countries have recently taken steps to make zinc and 
low-osmolarity ORS more widely available. In Nepal, for 
example, government approval and acceptance of the zinc 
policy, approval and registration of local zinc products, 
and inclusion of zinc on the essential drug list have all 
helped to establish an environment conducive to a zinc 
programme. In addition, Nepal’s Ministry of Health has 
collaborated with partners to train both public and private 
sector health personnel in key districts, coordinate the de-
velopment of promotional materials, and encourage local  
manufacturing of quality zinc products at an affordable price. 
In Benin, the Ministry of Health and UNICEF are working 
closely to introduce a diarrhoea treatment kit – contain-
ing both ORS and zinc tablets – through the public health 
system in areas with the highest diarrhoea prevalence 
rates. And in Madagascar, the Ministry of Health is work-
ing closely with the United States Agency for International 
Development and UNICEF to pilot zinc-related diarrhoea 
management training in several districts at both the  
community and health-facility level, with a view to reach-
ing at least half the country’s 110 districts by end-2009. 
The challenges of scaling up zinc and increasing usage 
rates of ORS are steep, but not prohibitive. A renewed  
call to action is needed to ensure that increasing coverage 
of diarrhoea treatment interventions becomes an interna-
tional priority. 
Sources: Global Zinc Task Force, 2009; UNICEF Supply Division, 2009.
FIGURE 
24
BOX 
9
A renewed call to action: Making zinc and low-osmolarity ORS an international priority
29
2006
2007
2008
160
140
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
73.7
157.9
20.5
A 7-point plan for  
comprehensive 
diarrhoea control
4
SECTION 
30
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
A 7-point plan for 
comprehensive diarrhoea control 4
We know what needs to be done to reduce the burden of childhood diarrhoea.  
A package of proven prevention and treatment measures are now available that, 
if taken to scale, would have a profound impact on reducing child deaths and 
would lead to a signiﬁcant reduction in the diarrhoea burden in the medium  
to long term. 
31
Treatment package
The treatment package focuses on two main  
elements, as laid out in the UNICEF and WHO  
2004 joint statement:43 
1. Fluid replacement to prevent dehydration
2. Zinc treatment. 
Oral rehydration therapy is the cornerstone of  
ﬂuid replacement. New elements of this approach 
include low-osmolarity ORS, which are more  
eﬀective at replacing ﬂuids than the previous ORS 
formulation, and zinc treatment, which decreases 
diarrhoea severity and duration. Important ad-
ditional components of the package are continued 
feeding, including breastfeeding, during the diar-
rhoea episode and use of appropriate ﬂuids avail-
able in the home if ORS are not available. 
Prevention package
The prevention package focuses on ﬁve main  
elements to reduce diarrhoea in the medium to  
long term: 
3. Rotavirus and measles vaccinations
4. Promotion of early and exclusive breastfeeding  
 and vitamin A supplementation
5. Promotion of handwashing with soap
6. Improved water supply quantity and quality,  
 including treatment and safe storage of  
 household water
7. Community-wide sanitation promotion. 
New aspects of this approach include rotavirus 
vaccination, which was recently recommended for 
global introduction (Box 10). In terms of commu-
nity-wide sanitation, new approaches to increase 
demand to stop open defecation have proven more 
eﬀective than previous strategies.
Rotavirus is a leading cause of severe diarrhoea and 
dehydration in children under ﬁve in both developing and 
industrialized countries. Accelerating the introduction of 
rotavirus vaccine in national immunization programmes is 
urgently needed, particularly in Asia and Africa, where the 
rotavirus burden is greatest. 
The ﬁrst rotavirus vaccine was licensed in the United 
States in 1998 and was shown to be 80 per cent or more 
effective in preventing severe rotavirus disease in vac-
cinated infants. However, the vaccine was soon withdrawn 
from the market, since it was associated with an increased 
risk for intussusception (an intestinal blockage formed 
when part of the intestine folds onto itself).  In 2006, two 
new rotavirus vaccines were licensed after studies showed 
them to be safe and efﬁcacious in a number of middle- and 
high-income countries. And in April 2009, WHO recom-
mended the introduction of the rotavirus vaccine in all 
national immunization programmes, based on preliminary 
results from safety and efﬁcacy studies in African countries. 
Accelerating the introduction of rotavirus vaccine globally 
will not only prevent severe diarrhoea and dehydration 
among children, but will also help to strengthen other 
aspects of diarrhoea control. Parents and communities will 
need to understand that this new vaccine will only prevent 
a portion of all diarrhoea cases, and education about  
the vaccine should include promotion of other preventive 
strategies as well as advice for home treatment and when 
to seek care. Surveillance to monitor the impact of the 
vaccine on diarrhoea cases can also be used to guide other 
aspects of prevention and control.
Sources: Parashar, et al., ‘Global Illness and Death Caused by Rotavirus 
Disease in Children’, Emerging Infectious Diseases, vol. 9, no. 5, 2003, pp. 
565-572; Murphy, T.V., et al., ‘Intussusception Among Infants Given Oral 
Rotavirus Vaccine’, New England Journal of Medicine, vol. 344, 2001, pp. 
564-572; Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) on Immunization, Meet-
ing minutes, April 2009, <http ://www.who.int/immunization/sage/en/>, 
accessed June 2009.
BOX 
10 Rotavirus vaccination: Urgently needed worldwide
32
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
allocation, including rotavirus vaccination,  
which has now been recommended for global  
introduction. At the same time, national and 
district health planners should include diarrhoea 
control in programmes targeting childhood  
malaria, pneumonia and HIV, and ensure support 
to accelerate coverage of proven interventions.
■ Reinstate diarrhoea prevention and treatment 
as a cornerstone of community-based primary 
health care. To eﬀectively control diarrhoea, 
treatment and prevention measures should be 
integrated into the training of health workers  
and reﬂected in supply chains and programme 
monitoring. Expanding the reach of health  
services into communities to deliver integrated  
interventions is critical. These include community- 
based promotion of breastfeeding, hygiene and 
sanitation and the provision of low-osmolarity 
ORS and zinc to children with diarrhoea.
■ Ensure that low-osmolarity ORS and zinc are 
adopted as policy in all countries. Clear policy 
guidance is needed to ensure that the latest  
recommendations for treating childhood  
It is important that implementation of the preven-
tion package is approached in a concerted way, 
since single interventions alone are likely to result 
in lesser overall impact. For example, diarrhoea 
caused by rotavirus cannot be prevented solely  
by improvements in water and sanitation. And 
rotavirus vaccine does not prevent other pathogens 
(such as E. coli and Shigella) from causing diar-
rhoea. The package should be accompanied  
by clear, targeted and integrated behaviour and 
social change communication strategies to  
improve uptake by families and communities. 
Action needed now to reduce child deaths  
from diarrhoea
■ Mobilize and allocate resources for diarrhoea 
control. Diarrhoea remains a leading killer of 
children, though the tools needed to address it 
are available and aﬀordable. New resources for 
child survival must include funding for diarrhoea 
prevention and treatment. And global initiatives 
must keep the management of diarrhoea high on 
the list of priorities for public health resource  
A 7-point plan for 
comprehensive diarrhoea control 4
33
diarrhoea are adopted and promoted, using ef-
fective delivery strategies. One way of facilitating 
the delivery of low-osmolarity ORS and zinc is by 
combining these life-saving remedies in a single 
treatment kit. 
■ Reach every child with eﬀective interventions. 
This will require a ﬂexible approach that takes 
into account the special circumstances of each 
country; often it will require a mix of public and 
private sector responses. Community-based ap-
proaches are needed to ensure high coverage of 
health, nutrition and water and sanitation inter-
ventions, rather than relying solely on the public 
sector for these services. Emergency and conﬂict 
situations may require immediate intervention by 
governments and international aid organizations, 
especially to prevent cholera outbreaks.
■ Accelerate the provision of basic water and 
sanitation services. This can best be accom-
plished through partnerships between the health 
sector and other agencies responsible for water 
and sanitation, and the use of community-based 
approaches. Eliminating open defecation must be 
a priority, along with promoting the construction 
of basic sanitation facilities by households and 
providing safe water facilities close to people’s 
homes that can be operated and maintained by 
the community.
■ Use innovative strategies to increase the 
adoption of proven measures against diarrhoea. 
All available options should be exploited to reach 
every household with a package of high-impact 
interventions against diarrhoea (Box 11), includ-
ing the testing of new approaches to achieve  
high and equitable coverage. This could include, 
for example, the development of ﬂavoured ORS 
formulas or systems for treating and safely storing 
household water. Other types of innovations 
include alternative delivery strategies, such as 
Child Health Days, to reach a high proportion of 
the target group. Consumer research to improve 
packaging, marketing and product positioning 
will be essential for greater acceptance of ORS, 
soap and household water treatment.
■ Change behaviours through community involve-
ment, education and health-promotion activities. 
34
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Clear and targeted health promotion and behaviour 
change communication programmes must accom-
pany the delivery of interventions to ensure that 
caregivers understand the simple actions they can 
take at home to prevent and manage diarrhoea. 
Engaging communities and caregivers early 
on – at the outset of programme planning – to 
strengthen their knowledge and practice of these 
essential measures is critical to their success and 
sustainability.
■ Make health systems work to control diarrhoea. 
National governments and their partners can 
transform general activities to strengthen health 
systems into speciﬁc agreements needed to reach 
every child with eﬀective measures to control 
diarrhoea. These include meeting the need for  
human resources, reducing staﬀ turnover, improv-
ing training programmes and seeking creative 
ways to motivate community health workers.
■ Monitor progress at all levels, and make the 
results count. As national programmes accelerate 
their diarrhoea control activities, it will become 
increasingly important for countries to collect, 
analyse and report quality data in a timely manner  
to monitor programmes and increase accountability  
and performance.
■ Make the prevention and treatment of diarrhoea 
everybody’s business.
 – Families and communities can ensure that 
breastfeeding, handwashing, sanitation and  
the treatment of household water receive the 
priority they deserve. They must also be sup-
ported in working with government to access 
safe water supplies and to operate and main-
tain water supply systems once they are built. 
Everyone from adolescents and schoolteachers 
to religious leaders and local business people 
can get involved.
 – The public sector can advance comprehensive 
prevention and treatment programmes at both 
the national and local levels, not only through 
the ministry of health but also through agencies 
involved in education, commerce, water and 
sanitation, nutrition, women’s aﬀairs and urban 
and rural development. 
 – The private sector can promote innovation in 
the supply and delivery of key interventions,  
in partnership with public institutions.
 – Government leaders can expand public aware-
ness of the problem and its solutions, thereby 
increasing demand for services to reduce deaths 
from diarrhoea. 
 – Global partnerships and networks can forge 
new links across initiatives, leading to strong 
and eﬀective advocacy and reducing the risk  
of competing activities. 
BOX 
11 Innovation in delivery strategies 
New and creative delivery strategies are needed to 
improve the uptake and effectiveness of key diarrhoeal 
disease control interventions. Some possible solutions 
being developed:
PRODUCTS NEED TO BE MADE  
MORE ATTRACTIVE TO USERS. 
Flavoured ORS would increase acceptability among  
children who may refuse treatment due to poor taste.  
Such ﬂavouring has not been recommended previ-
ously due to concerns of overconsumption leading to 
potentially harmful side effects. However, the new ORS 
formula largely eliminates this risk. A challenge remains 
to establish which ﬂavouring agents provide acceptable 
taste and are safe. Another case in point: More than 95 
per cent of mothers in the developing world with children 
under ﬁve have some sort of soap product in their homes, 
yet use of soap for handwashing does not approach that 
percentage.44 Communication strategies are needed on 
an ongoing basis to encourage the use of soap to prevent 
diarrhoea transmission.
PRODUCTS NEED TO BE PACKAGED  
FOR MORE EFFECTIVE USE. 
Since 1978, ORS packets have been available to most 
countries in only one size (a one-litre packet). Consequently, 
caregivers often adapt preparation instructions to avoid 
discarding leftover salts, since the one-litre packet may 
be more than needed. This tends to result in solutions of 
unknown concentrations that could be either ineffective or 
potentially dangerous. Smaller packet sizes are needed so 
that caregivers can more effectively treat their children’s 
diarrhoea at home.
PRODUCTS NEED TO BE DELIVERED  
IN INNOVATIVE WAYS THAT MAXIMIZE ACCESS. 
ORS packets and zinc could reach more children in need 
if packaged together in diarrhoea treatment kits, which 
could be delivered by community health workers, or 
directly to households through campaigns or Child Health 
Days. Pregnant women could also receive such kits during 
antenatal care visits. In terms of promoting sanitation 
and hygiene, schools are an important training ground; 
schoolchildren, in turn, often inﬂuence such practices at 
home. Household water treatment has also become more 
mainstream in recent years, allowing more households 
to increase their access to safe drinking water. Finally, 
market-based solutions are often the most effective way  
to deliver key diarrhoea control commodities, such as 
soap, latrines or home water treatment products.
Sources: Touchette, P.E, J. Elder, M. Nagiel, ‘How Much Oral Rehydration 
Solution is Actually Administered During Home-based Therapy?’, Journal 
of Tropical Medicine Hygiene, vol. 93, no. 1, Feb 1990, pp. 28-34; Curtis, V.,
L. Danquah, R. Aunger, ‘Habitual, Motivated and Planned Handwashing:  
A review of formative research from 11 countries’, Health Education  
Research, 2009. 
A 7-point plan for 
comprehensive diarrhoea control 4
35
36
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Data used in this report
37
Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys are nationally 
representative, standardized sample surveys to 
which UNICEF provides ﬁnancial and technical  
support. Since their inception in 1995, nearly 200 
MICS have been carried out globally. The latest 
round of surveys (MICS3) was conducted in more 
than 50 countries between 2005 and 2006. The  
next round is scheduled for 2009-2010. More  
information is available at www.childinfo.org.
Demographic and Health Surveys are also nation-
ally representative, standardized surveys that are 
usually implemented every ﬁve years with funding 
from USAID. The DHS is designed to collect a variety 
of data on a broad range of demographic and health 
issues and to be comparable over time and across 
countries. More information is available at www. 
measuredhs.com. 
Indicators
Prevention indicators 
The indicators to monitor prevention coverage  
(such as immunization, nutrition, and water and 
sanitation) presented in this report are based  
on well known and long-standing child survival 
indicators that are regularly used to monitor  
progress towards global goals and commitments. 
For example, data on water supply and sanitation 
are based on the work of the WHO/UNICEF Joint 
Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sani-
tation (www.wssinfo.org). Further information on 
these prevention indicators, such as deﬁnitions and 
data sources, are available at www.childinfo.org.
Data used in this report 
The data used in this report were derived from a 
range of sources, which are summarized below. 
Childhood diarrhoea burden
Estimates of the global and regional number of 
diarrhoea cases and deaths are based on the Global 
Burden Disease project, and are for the year 2004 
(the latest year estimates are available). The project 
provides a comprehensive assessment of mortality 
and loss of health due to diseases, injuries and risks 
for all regions of the world. When reviewing these 
estimates, it is important to note that the distribu-
tion of under-ﬁve deaths by cause refers to the 
primary cause of death. The estimated percentage 
distribution of cause-speciﬁc mortality for the year 
2004 was applied in this report to the 2008 envelope 
of total under-ﬁve deaths worldwide (8.8 million in 
2008) to arrive at the number of under-ﬁve deaths 
due to diarrhoea globally.
Prevention and treatment coverage
Data on prevention and treatment interventions 
were derived largely from national-level household 
surveys, notably the Multiple Indicator Cluster  
Surveys (MICS), supported by UNICEF, and the  
Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), supported 
by the United States Agency for International  
Development (USAID). Information from the  
surveys are compiled by UNICEF Headquarters  
and made available in a series of public-access  
databases found at www. childinfo.org, which  
are also published annually in The State of the 
World’s Children report.
38
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Treatment indicators 
Oral rehydration therapy with continued  
feeding – Proportion of children aged 0-59 months 
with diarrhoea receiving oral rehydration salts or  
recommended homemade ﬂuids or increased ﬂuids, 
and continued feeding during the diarrhoea episode. 
This indicator reﬂects the UNICEF and WHO pro-
gramme recommendations for diarrhoea treatment 
(with the exception of zinc). The recommendations 
were developed on the basis of broad consensus by 
leading experts in the ﬁeld during a UNICEF and 
WHO advisory meeting in 2004,45 and re-conﬁrmed 
in a 2007 follow-up technical conference.46 
ORS packets – Proportion of children aged 0-59 
months with diarrhoea receiving oral rehydration 
salts during the diarrhoea episode. This indicator 
is based on information provided by mothers or 
caregivers. Caregivers are asked whether their 
children suﬀered from diarrhoea in the two weeks 
prior to the survey. If so, they are then asked if the 
child received a ﬂuid made from a special packet of 
ORS or a pre-packaged ORS ﬂuid (where applicable) 
during the diarrhoea episode.
Recommended homemade ﬂuids – Proportion of 
children aged 0-59 months with diarrhoea receiving  
a government-recommended homemade ﬂuid  
(to be customized based on national guidelines) 
during the diarrhoea episode. This indicator is based 
on information provided by mothers or caregivers. 
Caregivers are asked whether their children suﬀered 
from diarrhoea in the two weeks prior to the survey. 
If so, they are then asked if the child received a 
government-recommended homemade ﬂuid during 
the diarrhoea episode. This question should be  
customized prior to starting survey work to include 
the speciﬁc ﬂuids recommended by national  
guidelines to treat diarrhoea. 
Increased ﬂuids – Proportion of children aged 
0-59 months with diarrhoea receiving more to drink 
during the diarrhoea episode. This indicator is based 
on information provided by mothers or caregivers. 
Caregivers are asked whether their children  
suﬀered from diarrhoea in the two weeks prior to  
the survey. If so, they are then asked if (during  
this illness) the child received none, much less, 
somewhat less, about the same, or more to drink 
than usual. Children reported to have received  
more to drink than usual during the illness are  
considered to have received this intervention. 
Continued feeding – Proportion of children aged 
0-59 months with diarrhoea receiving more, about 
the same or somewhat less food during the diarrhoea 
episode. This indicator is based on information 
provided by mothers or caregivers. Caregivers are 
asked whether their children suﬀered from diar-
rhoea in the two weeks prior to the survey. If so, 
they are then asked if (during the illness) the child 
received none, much less, somewhat less, about the 
same, or more food than usual. Children reported  
to have received either somewhat less, about the 
same, or more food than usual during the illness  
are considered to have received this intervention. 
Methodology 
Regional and global estimates – These are based 
on population-weighted averages, weighted by the 
total number of children under ﬁve years of age. 
These estimates are presented only if available data 
cover at least 50 per cent of total children under ﬁve 
years of age in regional or global groupings. The list 
of countries included in these groupings is available 
at www.childinfo.org.
Trends over time – Changes in treatment indicator 
deﬁnitions over the years have resulted in a relative 
Data used in this report
39
lack of comparable data from the 1990s in order to 
assess trends over time. To the extent possible, data 
collected through previous surveys have been re- 
analysed for the purposes of this report to conform 
to the current indicator deﬁnition (ORT with contin-
ued feeding) to monitor treatment coverage.
For each of the treatment indicators, regional as-
sessments of trends over time were conducted on 
the basis of a subset of countries with two or more 
comparable data points around the time periods 
2000 and 2007. A linear regression line was then 
ﬁtted through all available data points for each 
country included in the assessment to derive an 
estimate for the earlier (2000) and later time periods 
(2007). A regional estimate was then presented in 
this report if the subset of countries included in  
the trend analyses represented at least 50 per cent 
of the total children under ﬁve in the regional or 
global grouping. 
Interpreting treatment coverage data from 
household surveys 
The interpretation of treatment coverage must take 
into account a number of important issues: 
First, the indicator to monitor current treatment 
guidelines (ORT with continued feeding) reﬂects the 
multiple components of this recommendation (with 
the exception of zinc). As mentioned previously, this 
indicator deﬁnition was developed and agreed upon 
by leading experts at a UNICEF and WHO meeting 
in 2004, and was recently re-conﬁrmed during a 
Countdown to 2015 technical meeting in 2007.47 It 
is important to evaluate the contribution of each 
individual component of the indicator to the overall 
coverage value, and this assessment was presented 
in this report. 
Second, for some countries, comparisons of  
treatment coverage based on the current indicator 
deﬁnition with previously used indicators may  
result in markedly diﬀerent values. There may 
40
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
their response categories. Here again, it is important 
to note that survey questionnaires are translated 
into diﬀerent languages, which may also result in 
slight diﬀerences in the wording of questions across 
countries and over time – aﬀecting data collected 
not only for the diarrhoea treatment indictors, but 
for other information as well. Further research is 
needed to determine the extent to which these  
slight wording changes may have aﬀected overall 
coverage values.
The change in response categories for the continued 
feeding indicator around 2000 has particularly 
aﬀected the availability of data to report on this 
indicator as well as the ORT with continued feeding  
indicator. For example, prior to 2000, caregivers 
were asked if the child received more, the same 
or less to eat during the diarrhoea episode. After 
that time, the response categories were revised to 
include ‘somewhat less’ and ‘much less’ in addition 
to the other categories. Children are considered to 
have received the continued feeding intervention  
if they received the same, more or somewhat less  
to eat during their illness. This leads to a lack of 
available data to measure this indicator deﬁnition 
prior to 2000, given that the caregiver responses  
did not include a ‘somewhat less’ category. 
also be a diﬀerent assessment of trends over time 
depending on the indicator used. It is therefore 
important for countries to adopt and promote the 
latest recommendations for treating diarrhoeal  
diseases, and to monitor these programmes using 
the appropriate indicators. 
Third, prevalence estimates derived from national-
level household surveys may vary markedly by  
season and by timing of outbreaks (such as  
cholera). Prevalence estimates are also aﬀected  
by the survey respondents’ understanding of what 
constitutes a diarrhoea episode. The survey does  
not measure the type of diarrhoea experienced  
by the child (including its length and severity),  
nor the extent of dehydration resulting from the  
diarrhoea episode. These prevalence estimates  
are used to derive the denominator for diarrhoea 
treatment coverage values. 
Fourth, information is not collected on the number 
and timing of interventions used during the diar-
rhoea episode, including whether children received 
early ORS administration, the number of ORS 
packets received during the course of the illness, or 
whether homemade ﬂuids were correctly prepared. 
In addition, diﬀerent countries have diﬀerent  
guidelines on what constitutes a recommended 
homemade ﬂuid. These policies are not always 
clearly deﬁned, and survey questions may therefore 
not be customized for countries according to their 
speciﬁc national guidelines prior to starting  
survey work. In these cases, survey respondents 
must decide for themselves if the ﬂuid the child 
received was a government-recommended one, 
leading to major data quality issues. 
Fifth, while questions on diarrhoea treatment have 
been incorporated into major national-level house-
hold surveys, such as the DHS, since the 1980s, 
there have been a number of slight changes to the  
construction of these questions over time, as well as 
References
41
References 
1 
United Nations Children’s Fund and World Health 
Organization, ‘WHO/UNICEF Joint Statement:  
Clinical management of acute diarrhoea’, UNICEF, 
New York, 2004,< http://www.afro.who.int/cah/ 
documents/intervention/acute_diarrhoea_joint_ 
statement.pdf>, accessed June 2009.
2 
―, ‘Water with Sugar and Salt’, The Lancet, vol. 312, 
no. 8084, 1978, pp. 300-301.
3 
―, Weekly Epidemiological Record, vol. 83, no. 47, 21 
November 2008.
4 
Black, R.E., S. Morris and J. Bryce, ‘Where and Why 
are 10 Million Children Dying Every Year?’, The 
Lancet, vol. 361, no. 9376, 28 June 2003, pp. 2226-2234.
5 
Fewtrell, L., et al., ‘Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene 
Interventions to Reduce Diarrhoea in Less Developed 
Countries: A systematic review and meta-analysis’, 
The Lancet Infectious Diseases, vol. 5, no.1, 2005, pp. 
42-52; Curtis V., and S. Cairncross, ‘Eﬀect of Washing 
Hands with Soap on Diarrhoea Risk in the Community:  
A systematic review’, The Lancet Infectious Diseases, 
vol. 3, no. 5, 2003, pp. 275-281; Luby, S.P., et al.,  
‘Eﬀect of Handwashing on Child Health: A randomised 
controlled trial’, The Lancet, vol. 366, no. 9481, July 
2005, pp. 225-233.
6 
Boschi Pinto, C., et al., ‘The Global Burden of  
Childhood Diarrhoea’, in: Ehiri, J.E., M. Meremikwu 
(editors), International Maternal and Child Health, 
2009 (in press).
7 
Ibid.
8 
World Health Organization, The Evolution of Diarrhoeal 
and Acute Respiratory Disease Control at WHO, WHO, 
Geneva, 1999, <http://whqlibdoc.who.int/hq/ 
1999/WHO_CHS_CAH_99.12.pdf>, accessed June 2009.
9 
Weekly Epidemiological Record, vol. 83, no. 47, 21 
November 2008.
10 Partners in Health, The PIH Guide to the Community-
Based Treatment of HIV in Resource-Poor Settings 
(Revised Second Edition), Partners in Health, Boston, 
2008.
11 World Health Organization, Antiretroviral Therapy 
of HIV Infection in Infants and Children: Towards  
universal access. Recommendations for a public  
health approach, WHO, Geneva, 2006. 
12 Tindyebwa, D., et al., ‘Common Clinical Conditions 
Associated with HIV’, in: Handbook on Paediatric 
AIDS in Africa, 2004.
42
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
21 Curtis, V.A., and S. Cairncross, ‘Domestic Hygiene 
and Diarrhoea, Pinpointing the Problem’, Tropical 
Medicine and International Health, vol. 5, no. 1, 2000, 
pp. 22-32.
22 World Health Organization, ‘Safe Water, Better 
Health’, WHO, Geneva, 2008, <http://www.who.int/
quantifying_ehimpacts/publications/ 
saferwater/en/index.html>, accessed June 2009.
23 ―, Maternal and Child Undernutrition: Global and 
regional exposures and health consequences’, The 
Lancet, vol. 371, no. 9608, 2008, pp. 243-260.
24 Checkley, W., et al., ‘Eﬀects of Acute Diarrhea on  
Linear Growth in Peruvian Children’, American Journal 
of Epidemiology, vol. 157, no. 2, 2003, pp. 166-175.
25 Feachem, R.G., et al., ‘Interventions for the Control of 
Diarrhoeal Diseases Among Young Children: Promo-
tion of breastfeeding’, Bulletin of the World Health 
Organization, vol. 62, no. 2, 1983; Victora, C.G., et al., 
‘Evidence for the Protection of Breastfeeding Against 
Infant Deaths from Infectious Diseases in Brazil’, The 
Lancet, vol. 2, no. 8554,1987, pp. 319-322.
26 WHO Collaborative Study Team on the Role of Breast-
feeding on the Prevention of Infant Mortality, ‘Eﬀect 
of Breastfeeding on Infant and Child Mortality due to 
Infectious Diseases in Less Developed Countries: A 
pooled analysis’, The Lancet, vol. 355, no. 9202, 2000, 
pp. 451-455.
27 International Vitamin A Consultative Group, ‘IVACG 
Policy Statement on Vitamin A, Diarrhea and  
Measles’, IVACG, Washington DC, 1996; Barreto, 
M.L., et al., ’Eﬀect of Vitamin A Supplementation on 
Diarrhoea and Acute Lower Respiratory Infections in 
Young Children In Brazil’, The Lancet, vol. 344, no. 
8917, 1994, pp. 228-231; Fawzi, W.W., et al., ‘Vitamin  
A Supplementation and Child Mortality: A meta- 
analysis’, Journal of the American Medical Association, 
vol. 269, no. 7, 1993, pp. 898-903.
28 International Vitamin A Consultative Group, ‘IVACG 
Policy Statement on Vitamin A, Diarrhea and  
Measles’, IVACG, Washington DC,1996; Barreto,  
M.L., et al., ‘Eﬀect of Vitamin A Supplementation  
on Diarrhoea and Acute Lower Respiratory Infections 
in Young Children in Brazil’, The Lancet, vol. 344, 
no. 8917, 1994, pp. 228-231.
13 Lule, J.R., et al., ‘Eﬀect of Home-Based Water Chlori-
nation and Safe Storage on Diarrhea Among Persons 
with Human Immunodeﬁciency Virus in Uganda’, 
American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, 
vol. 73, no. 5, 2005, pp. 926-933.
14 Black, R.E., S. Morris and J. Bryce, ‘Where and Why 
are 10 Million Children Dying Every Year?’, The Lan-
cet, vol. 361, no. 9376, 28 June 2003, pp. 2226-2234.
15 Jamison, D.T., et al. (editors), Disease Control Priorities 
in Developing Countries (Second Edition), London 
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, 
2008, <http://www.dcp2.org/pubs/DCP>, accessed 
June 2009.
16 Ferriman, A., ‘BMJ readers choose the “sanitary 
revolution” as greatest medical advance since 1840’, 
British Medical Journal, vol. 334, no. 7585, 2007, p. 111.
17 World Health Organization, ‘Water, Sanitation and  
Hygiene: Quantifying the health impact at national 
and local levels in countries with incomplete water 
supply and sanitation coverage’, Environmental  
burden of disease series, no.15, 2007. 
18 Kar, K., ‘Subsidy or Self-Respect? Participatory total 
community sanitation in Bangladesh’, IDS Working 
paper 184, Institute of Development Studies, Brighton, 
UK, 2003.
19 Jamison, Dean T., et al. (editors), Disease Control 
Priorities in Developing Countries (Second Edition), 
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
London, 2008, <http://www.dcp2.org/pubs/PIH/2/>, 
accessed June 2009.
20 Fewtrell, L., et al., ‘Water, Sanitation, and Hygiene 
Interventions to Reduce Diarrhoea in Less Developed 
Countries: A systematic review and meta-analysis’, 
The Lancet Infectious Diseases, vol. 5, no. 1, 2005, pp. 
42-52; Curtis V., and S. Cairncross, ‘Eﬀect of Washing 
Hands with Soap on Diarrhoea Risk in the Community:  
A systematic review’, The Lancet Infectious Diseases, 
vol. 3, no. 5, 2003, pp. 275-281; Luby, S.P., et al.,  
‘Eﬀect of Handwashing on Child Health: A randomised 
controlled trial’, The Lancet, vol. 366, no. 9481, July 
2005, pp. 225-233. 
References
43
29 Zinc Investigators’ Collaborative Group, ‘Prevention of 
Diarrhea and Pneumonia by Zinc Supplementation in 
Children in Developing Countries: Pooled analysis of 
randomized controlled trials’, Journal of Pediatrics, 
vol. 135, no. 6, 1999, pp. 689-697; Lazzerini, M., 
and L. Ronfani, ‘Oral Zinc for Treating Diarrhoea in 
Children’, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 
issue 3, article no. CD005436. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.
CD005436.pub2, 2008.
30 ― , Weekly Epidemiological Record, vol. 83, no. 47, 21 
November 2008.
31 World Health Organization, ‘Estimated Rotavirus 
Deaths for Children Under Five Years of Age: 2004’, 
<http://www.who.int/immunization_monitoring/ 
burden/rotavirus_estimates/en/index.html>, accessed 
June 2009.
32 Rotavirus Vaccine Program, ‘Rotavirus Facts’, <http://
www.rotavirusvaccine.org>, accessed August 2009. 
33 United Nations Children’s Fund and World Health 
Organization, Model IMCI Handbook: Integrated 
management of childhood illness, WHO, Geneva, 
2005, <http://www.who.int/child_adolescent_health/
documents/9241546441/en/index.html>, accessed 
June 2009.
34 United Nations Children’s Fund and World Health 
Organization, ‘WHO/UNICEF Joint Statement: Clinical 
management of acute diarrhoea’, UNICEF, New York, 
2004, <http://www.afro.who.int/cah/documents/ 
intervention/acute_diarrhoea_joint_statement.pdf>, 
accessed June 2009.
35 ―, ‘Water with Sugar and Salt’, The Lancet, vol. 312, 
no. 8084, 1978, pp. 300-301.
36 World Health Organization/United Nations Children’s 
Fund, Progress on Drinking Water and Sanitation: 
Special focus on sanitation, UNICEF, New York, 2008.
37 Ibid.
38 Measles Initiative, ‘Progress in Global Measles Control 
and Mortality Reduction, 2000-2007’, The Morbidity 
and Mortality Weekly Report, vol. 57, no. 48, 5  
December 2008, p.1303, <http://www.measlesinitiative. 
org/docs/mi-mmwr-measles-update.pdf>,  
accessed June 2009.
39 Hoekstra, E.J., et al., ‘Reducing Measles Mortality, 
Reducing Child Mortality’, The Lancet, vol. 368, 
no. 9541, 2006, pp. 1050-1052.
40 Victora, C.G., et al., ‘Reduce Deaths Through Oral 
Rehydration Therapy’, Bulletin of the World Health 
Organization, vol. 78, no. 10, 2000, pp. 1246-1255. 
41 United Nations Children’s Fund, Habits of a Lifetime, 
UNICEF, Dhaka, 2008, <http://www.unicef.org/ 
bangladesh/media_4550.htm>, accessed June 2009.
42 UNICEF Supply Division, 2009.
43 United Nations Children’s Fund and World Health 
Organization, ‘WHO/UNICEF Joint Statement: Clinical 
management of acute diarrhoea’, UNICEF, New York, 
2004, <http://www.afro.who.int/cah/documents/
intervention/acute_diarrhoea_joint_statement.pdf>, 
accessed June 2009.
44 Curtis, V., L. Danquah and R. Aunger, ‘Habitual, 
Motivated and Planned Handwashing: A review of 
formative research from 11 countries, Health Education 
Research, 2009.
45 United Nations Children’s Fund/World Health Organi-
zation, Summary of a meeting held on 17-18 June 2004, 
<http://www.childinfo.org/mdg_methodology.html>, 
accessed June 2009.
46 ‘Countdown to 2015’, Report of the meeting of the 
Coverage Working Group for the Countdown to 2015 
Conference, 7 September 2007, UNICEF, New York.
47 United Nations Children’s Fund/World Health Organi-
zation, Summary of a meeting held on 17-18 June 2004, 
<http://www.childinfo.org/mdg_methodology.html>, 
accessed June 2009; ‘Countdown to 2015’, Report of 
the meeting of the Coverage Working Group for the 
Countdown to 2015 Conference, 7 September 2007, 
UNICEF, New York.
Table 1 Demographics and diarrhoea treatment indicators 45
Table 2 Diarrhoea prevention indicators 
50
Table 3 Use of oral rehydration therapy with continued 
 
 
feeding, by background characteristics 
55
Statistical annex
44
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Statistical annex
TABLE 
1
Demographics and diarrhoea treatment indicators 
Afghanistan 
257 
311 
4,907 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Albania 
14 
1 
217 
50  
56  
76  
12  
53  
MICS 2005
Algeria 
41 
30 
3,328 
24  
19  
12  
7  
79  
MICS 2006
Andorra 
4 
0 
4 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Angola 
220 
165 
3,170 
–  
–  
–  
–  
– 
Antigua and Barbuda 
12 
0 
4 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Argentina 
16 
11 
3,361 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Armenia 
23 
1 
221 
59  
25  
25  
43  
90  
DHS 2005
Australia 
6 
2 
1,327 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Austria 
4 
0 
391 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Azerbaijan 
36 
6 
738 
31  
21  
14  
45  
68  
DHS 2006
Bahamas 
13 
0 
28 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Bahrain 
12 
0 
69 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Bangladesh 
54 
183 
16,710 
68  
77  
20  
48  
80  
DHS 2007
Barbados 
11 
0 
14 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Belarus 
13 
1 
472 
54  
36  
61  
37  
62  
MICS 2005
Belgium 
5 
1 
590 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Belize 
19 
0 
36 
26  
27  
33  
22  
42  
MICS 2006
Benin 
121 
39 
1,450 
42  
23  
10  
35  
77  
DHS 2006
Bhutan 
81 
1 
71 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Bolivia, Plurinational State of 
54 
14 
1,245 
54 b 
35  
16 b 
51 b 
82 b 
pDHS 2008 
 
DHS 2003
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
15 
0 
172 
53  
35  
39  
22  
75  
MICS 2005-2006
Botswana 
31 
1 
221 
7 b 
49 b 
2 b 
9 b 
8 b 
MICS 2000
Brazil 
22 
67 
16,125 
–  
44 b 
16 b 
55 b 
–  
DHS 1996
Brunei Darussalam 
7 
0 
37 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Bulgaria 
11 
1 
349 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Burkina Faso 
169 
117 
2,934 
42  
17  
8  
51  
74  
MICS 2006
Burundi 
168 
45 
1,155 
23  
35  
5  
15  
55  
MICS 2005
Cambodia 
90 
32 
1,611 
50  
21  
21  
38  
84  
DHS 2005
Cameroon 
131 
89 
3,016 
22  
13  
7  
11  
77  
MICS 2006
Canada 
6 
2 
1,753 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Cape Verde 
29 
0 
59 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Central African Republic  
173 
26 
656 
47  
13  
25  
48  
73  
MICS 2006
Chad 
209 
99 
1,985 
27 b 
15 b 
4 b 
28 b 
81 b 
DHS 2004
Chile 
9 
2 
1,238 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
China 
21 
365 
86,881 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Colombia 
20 
18 
4,485 
39  
47  
23  
42  
59  
DHS 2005
Comoros 
105 
2 
97 
31 b 
19 b 
19 b 
38 b 
53 b 
MICS 2000
Congo 
127 
16 
551 
39  
18  
19  
41  
78  
DHS 2005
Cook Islands 
15 
0 
2 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Costa Rica 
11 
1 
376 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Côte d’Ivoire 
114 
79 
3,139 
45  
10  
20  
50  
70  
MICS 2006
Croatia 
6 
0 
208 
–  
–  
–  
–  
-–
Cuba 
6 
1 
613 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Cyprus 
4 
0 
49 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Czech Republic 
4 
0 
519 
–  
–  
–  
–  
-–
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
55 
18 
1,575 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Democratic Republic of the Congo 
199 
554 
11,829 
42  
31  
20  
35  
71  
DHS 2007
Country or territory
Under-ﬁve  
mortality rate  
(per 1,000  
live births)
2008
Number of  
under-ﬁve  
deaths  
(thousands)
2008
Number of  
children  
under ﬁve  
(thousands)
2008
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving:
ORT with  
continued  
feeding
2005-2008a
ORS packet
 2005-2008a
Recommended 
homemade  
ﬂuids
2005-2008a
Increased  
ﬂuids
2005-2008a
Continued  
feeding
2005-2008a
Source
45
Denmark 
4 
0 
320 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Djibouti 
95 
2 
108 
33  
62  
17  
51  
38  
MICS 2006
Dominica 
11 
0 
3 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Dominican Republic 
33 
7 
1,086 
55  
41  
11  
37  
86  
DHS 2007
Ecuador 
25 
7 
1,392 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Egypt 
23 
45 
9,447 
19  
28  
3  
11  
48  
DHS 2008
El Salvador 
18 
2 
608 
–  
58  
–  
–  
–  
ONS 2008
Equatorial Guinea 
148 
3 
103 
36 b 
29 b 
25 b 
44 b 
55 b 
MICS 2000
Eritrea 
58 
10 
811 
54 b 
45 b 
28 b 
38 b 
75 b 
DHS 2002
Estonia 
6 
0 
73 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Ethiopia 
109 
321 
13,323 
15  
20  
19  
9  
44  
DHS 2005
Fiji 
18 
0 
87 
–  
–  
–  
–  
– 
Finland 
3 
0 
291 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
France 
4 
3 
3,870 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Gabon 
77 
3 
182 
44 b 
25 b 
17 b 
63 b 
60 b 
DHS 2000
Gambia 
106 
6 
267 
38  
40  
10  
53  
53  
MICS 2006
Georgia 
30 
2 
241 
37  
40  
14  
36  
60  
MICS 2005
Germany 
4 
3 
3,446 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
Ghana 
76 
55 
3,319 
29  
45  
9  
34  
50  
pDHS 2008 
 
MICS 2006
Greece 
4 
0 
532 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Grenada 
15 
0 
9 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Guatemala 
35 
15 
2,118 
–  
34 b 
10 b 
48 b 
–  
ONS 2002
Guinea 
146 
54 
1,635 
38  
33  
7  
33  
71  
DHS 2005
Guinea-Bissau 
195 
12 
265 
25  
23  
27  
17  
44  
MICS 2006
Guyana 
61 
1 
69 
28  
39  
16  
13  
50  
MICS 2006-2007
Haiti 
72 
19 
1,252 
43  
40  
44  
26  
78  
DHS 2005-2006
Holy See 
– 
– 
– 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Honduras 
31 
6 
958 
49  
56  
–  
34  
75  
DHS 2005-2006
Hungary 
7 
1 
486 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
Iceland 
3 
0 
22 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
India 
69 
1,830 
126,642 
33  
26  
20  
10  
70  
DHS 2005-2006
Indonesia 
41 
173 
20,891 
54  
35  
22  
30  
88  
DHS 2007
Iran (Islamic Republic of) 
32 
46 
6,402 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
 
Iraq 
44 
41 
4,450 
64  
31  
91  
23  
67  
MICS 2006
Ireland 
4 
0 
335 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
 
Israel 
5 
1 
693 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
 
Italy 
4 
2 
2,892 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
 
Jamaica 
31 
2 
255 
39  
40  
–  
31  
57  
MICS 2005 
Japan 
4 
4 
5,400 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
 
Jordan 
20 
3 
750 
32  
20  
9  
46  
62  
DHS 2007 
Kazakhstan 
30 
10 
1,384 
48  
74  
18  
45  
59  
MICS 2006 
Kenya 
128 
189 
6,540 
33 b 
29 b 
20 b 
34 b 
67 b 
DHS 2003 
Kiribati 
48 
0 
10 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
 
Kuwait 
11 
1 
249 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
 
Kyrgyzstan 
38 
5 
547 
22  
20  
5  
25  
52  
MICS 2006 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
61 
10 
776 
49  
39  
30  
53  
70  
MICS 2006 
Latvia 
9 
0 
109 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
 
Lebanon 
13 
1 
323 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
 
(continued)
Country or territory
Under-ﬁve  
mortality rate  
(per 1,000  
live births)
2008
Number of  
under-ﬁve  
deaths  
(thousands)
2008
Number of  
children  
under ﬁve  
(thousands)
2008
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving:
ORT with  
continued  
feeding
2005-2008a
ORS packet
 2005-2008a
Recommended 
homemade  
ﬂuids
2005-2008a
Increased  
ﬂuids
2005-2008a
Continued  
feeding
2005-2008a
Source
TABLE 
1
Demographics and diarrhoea treatment indicators 
46
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Lesotho 
79 
5 
272 
53 b 
42 b 
55 b 
32 b 
66 b 
DHS 2004
Liberia 
145 
20 
619 
47  
53  
11  
30  
67  
DHS 2007
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya 
17 
2 
700 
–  
–  
–  
–  
– 
Liechtenstein 
2 
0 
2 
–  
–  
–  
–  
– 
Lithuania 
7 
0 
151 
–  
–  
–  
–  
– 
Luxembourg 
3 
0 
27 
–  
–  
–  
–  
– 
Madagascar 
106 
71 
3,060 
47 b 
12 b 
32 b 
35 b 
80 b 
DHS 2003-2004
Malawi 
100 
56 
2,591 
27  
55  
1  
9  
44  
MICS 2006
Malaysia 
6 
4 
2,732 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Maldives 
28 
0 
27 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Mali 
194 
100 
2,207 
38  
14  
13  
35  
77  
DHS 2006
Malta 
6 
0 
19 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Marshall Islands 
36 
0 
6 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Mauritania 
118 
12 
475 
32  
20  
14  
38  
48  
MICS 2007
Mauritius 
17 
0 
91 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Mexico 
17 
36 
10,281 
–  
81 b 
–  
–  
–  
ONS 1996-1997
Micronesia (Federated States of) 
39 
0 
14 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Moldova 
17 
1 
200 
48  
33  
–  
43  
82  
DHS 2005
Monaco 
4 
0 
2 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
Mongolia 
41 
2 
229 
47  
38  
30  
33  
72  
MICS 2005
Montenegro 
8 
0 
38 
64  
16  
100  
18  
64  
MICS 2005
Morocco 
36 
24 
3,041 
46 b 
23 b 
7 b 
42 b 
84 b 
DHS 2003-2004
Mozambique 
130 
110 
3,820 
47  
46  
19  
23  
75  
MICS 2008
Myanmar 
98 
98 
4,629 
65 b 
53 b 
46 b 
20 b 
81 b 
MICS 2003
Namibia 
42 
2 
277 
48  
63  
21  
16  
72  
DHS 2006-2007
Nauru 
45 
0 
1 
68  
–  
–  
–  
–  
pnDHS 2007 
Nepal 
51 
37 
3,535 
37  
29  
–  
22  
89  
DHS 2006
Netherlands 
5 
1 
958 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
New Zealand 
6 
0 
288 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Nicaragua 
27 
4 
675 
49 b 
50 b 
54 b 
39 b 
70 b 
DHS 2001
Niger 
167 
121 
3,121 
34  
18  
11  
36  
69  
DHS 2006
Nigeria 
186 
1,077 
25,020 
28 b 
26  
17 b 
20 b 
71 b 
pDHS 2008 
 
DHS 2003
Niue 
– 
– 
0 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Norway 
4 
0 
293 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Occupied Palestinian Territory 
27 
4 
697 
–  
–  
–  
45 b 
–  
ONS 2000
Oman 
12 
1 
293 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Pakistan 
89 
465 
23,778 
37  
41  
16  
21  
69  
DHS 2006-2007
Palau 
15 
0 
2 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Panama 
23 
2 
345 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Papua New Guinea 
69 
14 
950 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Paraguay 
28 
4 
736 
–  
24 b 
43 b 
46 b 
–  
DHS 1990
Peru 
24 
15 
2,975 
60  
25  
17  
60  
82  
DHS 2004-2006
Philippines 
32 
73 
10,701 
76 b 
47  
24 b 
2 b 
94 b 
pnDHS 2008 
 
DHS 2003
Poland 
7 
3 
1,810 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Portugal 
4 
0 
538 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Qatar 
10 
0 
77 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Republic of Korea 
5 
2 
2,292 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Country or territory
Under-ﬁve  
mortality rate  
(per 1,000  
live births)
2008
Number of  
under-ﬁve  
deaths  
(thousands)
2008
Number of  
children  
under ﬁve  
(thousands)
2008
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving:
ORT with  
continued  
feeding
2005-2008a
ORS packet
 2005-2008a
Recommended 
homemade  
ﬂuids
2005-2008a
Increased  
ﬂuids
2005-2008a
Continued  
feeding
2005-2008a
Source
Statistical annex
47
Romania 
14 
3 
1,059 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Russian Federation 
13 
20 
7,389 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Rwanda 
112 
41 
1,646 
24  
21  
11  
15  
74  
DHS 2007-2008 
 
DHS 2005
Saint Kitts and Nevis 
16 
0 
2 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Saint Lucia 
13 
0 
15 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
13 
0 
9 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Samoa 
26 
0 
22 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
San Marino 
2 
0 
2 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Sao Tome and Principe 
98 
0 
23 
63  
31  
17  
61  
81  
MICS 2006
Saudi Arabia 
21 
12 
2,859 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Senegal 
108 
49 
2,046 
43  
15  
14  
39  
81  
DHS 2005
Serbia 
7 
1 
576 
71  
17  
96  
36  
75  
MICS 2005
Seychelles 
12 
0 
14 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Sierra Leone 
194 
43 
947 
31  
68  
12  
51  
40  
pDHS 2008 
 
MICS 2005
Singapore 
3 
0 
200 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Slovakia 
8 
0 
266 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Slovenia 
4 
0 
94 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Solomon Islands 
36 
1 
73 
76  
–  
–  
–  
–  
pnDHS 2007 
Somalia 
200 
76 
1,611 
7  
13  
9  
3  
28  
MICS 2006
South Africa 
67 
73 
5,200 
–  
40 b 
38 b 
24 b 
57 b 
DHS 2003-2004
Spain 
4 
2 
2,373 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Sri Lanka 
15 
6 
1,784 
–  
50  
–  
–  
–  
pDHS 2006-2007 
Sudan 
109 
138 
5,836 
56  
31  
–  
26  
79  
ONS 2006
Suriname 
27 
0 
49 
28  
44  
91  
41  
49  
MICS 2006
Swaziland 
83 
3 
159 
22  
86  
20  
26  
55  
DHS 2006-2007
Sweden 
3 
0 
527 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Switzerland 
5 
0 
364 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Syrian Arab Republic 
16 
10 
2,807 
34  
50  
31  
35  
47  
MICS 2006
Tajikistan  
64 
12 
871 
22  
48  
25  
22  
36  
MICS 2005
Thailand 
14 
14 
4,843 
46  
57  
23  
7  
69  
MICS 2005-2006
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 11 
0 
112 
45  
24  
63  
14  
55  
MICS 2005
Timor-Leste 
93 
4 
185 
–  
60 b 
43 b 
7 b 
–  
nDHS 2003 
Togo 
98 
20 
947 
22  
10  
13  
13  
67  
MICS 2006
Tonga 
19 
0 
14 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Trinidad and Tobago 
35 
1 
94 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Tunisia 
21 
3 
780 
62  
71  
16  
51  
72  
MICS 2006
Turkey 
22 
30 
6,543 
–  
14 b 
15 b 
60 b 
–  
DHS 1998
Turkmenistan 
48 
5 
518 
25  
40  
15  
39  
42  
MICS 2006
Tuvalu 
36 
0 
1 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Uganda 
135 
190 
6,182 
39  
40  
7  
20  
73  
DHS 2006
Ukraine  
16 
7 
2,132 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
United Arab Emirates 
8 
0 
307 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
United Kingdom 
6 
4 
3,601 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
United Republic of Tanzania 
104 
175 
7,566 
53  
54  
20  
36  
76  
DHS 2004-2005
United States 
8 
35 
21,624 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Uruguay 
14 
1 
249 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Uzbekistan 
38 
21 
2,576 
28  
28  
36  
34  
47  
MICS 2006
Country or territory
Under-ﬁve  
mortality rate  
(per 1,000  
live births)
2008
Number of  
under-ﬁve  
deaths  
(thousands)
2008
Number of  
children  
under ﬁve  
(thousands)
2008
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving:
ORT with  
continued  
feeding
2005-2008a
ORS packet
 2005-2008a
Recommended 
homemade  
ﬂuids
2005-2008a
Increased  
ﬂuids
2005-2008a
Continued  
feeding
2005-2008a
Source
(continued)
TABLE 
1
Demographics and diarrhoea treatment indicators 
48
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Vanuatu 
33 
0 
33 
43  
–  
–  
–  
–  
pMICS 2007 
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) 
18 
11 
2,911 
51 b 
38 b 
60 b 
15 b 
66 b 
MICS 2000
Viet Nam 
14 
21 
7,316 
65  
26  
23  
41  
66  
MICS 2006
Yemen 
69 
57 
3,733 
48  
33  
63  
60  
51  
MICS 2006
Zambia 
148 
77 
2,282 
56  
60  
10  
34  
76  
DHS 2007
Zimbabwe 
57 
21 
1,707 
47  
6  
61  
32  
66  
DHS 2005-2006
AFRICA 
132 
4,475 
151,830 
35  
29  
14  
25  
64
Sub-Saharan Africa 
144 
4,371 
134,534 
37  
29  
15  
27  
66
Eastern and Southern Africa 
119 
1,635 
61,795 
33  
36  
16  
20  
60
West and Central Africa 
169 
2,596 
66,795 
38  
25  
14  
36  
69
Middle East and North Africa 
43 
420 
46,256 
39  
32  
32  
25  
61
ASIA 
54 
3,665 
323,567 
40  
34  
20  
18  
73
South Asia 
76 
2,832 
177,453 
37  
33  
20  
16  
71
East Asia and Paciﬁc 
28 
832 
146,114 
55 c 
38 c 
23 c 
30 c 
80 c
Latin America and Caribbean 
23 
247 
53,618 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
CEE/CIS 
23 
127 
26,561 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Industrialized countries 
6 
67 
56,038 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Developing countries 
71 
8,654 
566,411 
39 c 
33 c 
20 c 
22 c 
69 c
Least developed countries 
129 
3,516 
122,674 
43  
39  
18  
32  
69
World 
65 
8,757 
634,631 
39 c 
33 c 
20 c 
22 c 
69 c
Source:  
Data are from the UNICEF global diarrhoea databases, which include survey data from Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS) and other national  
surveys (ONS). 
The complete databases (including time series, disparities and detailed source information) are available at: www.childinfo.org. Demographic information is based on the latest estimates from the  
United Nations Population Division (children under age ﬁve) and the Inter-agency Child Mortality Estimation Group (under-ﬁve deaths).
‘p’ refers to preliminary survey report; ‘n’ refers to national survey report.
Data are as of 15 August 2009.
Notes:
(a) Data refer to the most recent year available during the period speciﬁed in the column heading.
(b) Data refer to a year or period other than that speciﬁed in the column heading.
(c) Excludes China.
Indicator deﬁnitions:
ORT with continued feeding: Percentage of children aged 0-59 months with diarrhoea in the previous two weeks receiving oral rehydration therapy (ORS packet or recommended homemade ﬂuids or  
increased ﬂuids) and continued feeding during the diarrhoea episode. Survey data were re-analysed to conform to this indicator deﬁnition.
ORS packet: Percentage of children aged 0-59 months with diarrhoea in the previous two weeks receiving at least one ORS packet (either pre-packaged ORS ﬂuids or ﬂuids from an ORS packet) during  
the diarrhoea episode.
Recommended homemade ﬂuids: Percentage of children aged 0-59 months with diarrhoea in the previous two weeks receiving at least one recommended homemade ﬂuid during the diarrhoea  
episode. Survey questions should be customized to reﬂect national guidelines designating a set of appropriate ﬂuids that may be prepared at home. However, most survey data are not collected  
using customized questions (see section entitled ‘Data used in this report’ on page 37).
Increased ﬂuids: Percentage of children aged 0-59 months with diarrhoea in the previous two weeks receiving more to drink than usual during the diarrhoea episode.
Continued feeding: Percentage of children aged 0-59 months with diarrhoea in the previous two weeks receiving either the same, more or somewhat less to eat than usual during the diarrhoea episode. 
Country or territory
Under-ﬁve  
mortality rate  
(per 1,000  
live births)
2008
Number of  
under-ﬁve  
deaths  
(thousands)
2008
Number of  
children  
under ﬁve  
(thousands)
2008
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving:
ORT with  
continued  
feeding
2005-2008a
ORS packet
 2005-2008a
Recommended 
homemade  
ﬂuids
2005-2008a
Increased  
ﬂuids
2005-2008a
Continued  
feeding
2005-2008a
Source
Statistical annex
49
TABLE 
2
Diarrhoea prevention indicators
Afghanistan 
22 
37 
17 
30 
45 
25 
75 
33 c 
59 c 
–  
29  
54  
–
Albania 
97 
97 
97 
97 
98 
97 
98 
6  
26  
40  
69  
22  
–
Algeria 
85 
87 
81 
94 
98 
87 
88 
3  
15  
7  
39  
22  
–
Andorra 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
98 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Angola 
51 
62 
39 
50 
79 
16 
79 
16 c 
29 c 
11 d 
77 d 
37 d 
82
Antigua and Barbuda 
– 
95 
– 
– 
98 
– 
99 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Argentina 
96 
98 
80 
91 
92 
83 
99 
2 c 
8 c 
–  
–  
28  
–
Armenia 
98 
99 
96 
91 
96 
81 
94 
4  
18  
33  
57  
15  
–
Australia 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
94 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Austria 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
83 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Azerbaijan 
78 
95 
59 
80 
90 
70 
66 
8  
25  
12  
44  
16  
90 e
Bahamas 
– 
98 
– 
100 
100 100 
90 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Bahrain 
– 
100 
– 
– 
100 
– 
99 
–  
–  
34 d 
65 d 
41 d 
–
Bangladesh 
80 
85 
78 
36 
48 
32 
89 
41  
43  
43  
74  
91  
97
Barbados 
100 
100 
100 
99 
99 100 
92 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Belarus 
100 
100 
99 
93 
91 
97 
99 
1  
4  
9  
38  
4  
–
Belgium 
– 
100 
– 
– 
– 
– 
93 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Belize 
– 
100 
– 
– 
– 
– 
96 
4  
22  
10  
–  
27  
–
Benin 
65 
78 
57 
30 
59 
11 
61 
18  
43  
43  
72  
57  
52
Bhutan 
81 
98 
79 
52 
71 
50 
99 
14 d 
48 d 
–  
–  
–  
–
Bolivia, Plurinational State of 
86 
96 
69 
43 
54 
22 
86 
–  
–  
60  
81  
40  
45
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
99 
100 
98 
95 
99 
92 
84 
1  
10  
18  
29  
10  
–
Botswana 
96 
100 
90 
47 
60 
30 
94 
11 d 
29 d 
34 d 
57 d 
11 d 
–
Brazil 
91 
97 
58 
77 
84 
37 
99 
2  
7  
40  
70  
25 c 
–
Brunei Darussalam 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
97 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Bulgaria 
99 
100 
97 
99 
100 
96 
96 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Burkina Faso 
72 
97 
66 
13 
41 
6 
75 
–  
–  
7  
50  
85  
100
Burundi 
71 
84 
70 
41 
44 
41 
84 
35  
–  
45  
88  
–  
80
Cambodia 
65 
80 
61 
28 
62 
19 
89 
28  
42  
60  
82  
54  
88
Cameroon 
70 
88 
47 
51 
58 
42 
80 
16  
36    
21    
64    
21    
–
Canada 
100 
100 
99 
100 
100 
99 
94 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Cape Verde 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
96 
–  
–  
60  
80  
13  
–
Central African Republic  
66 
90 
51 
31 
40 
25 
62 
24  
43  
23  
55  
47  
68
Chad 
48 
71 
40 
9 
23 
4 
23 
–  
–  
2  
77  
65  
0
Chile 
95 
98 
72 
94 
97 
74 
92 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
China 
88 
98 
81 
65 
74 
59 
94 
6  
15  
–  
32  
15  
–
Colombia 
93 
99 
77 
78 
85 
58 
92 
5 c 
15c  
47  
65  
32  
–
Comoros 
85 
91 
81 
35 
49 
26 
76 
–  
–  
21 d 
34 d 
45 d 
20
Congo 
71 
95 
35 
20 
19 
21 
79 
11  
30  
19  
78  
21  
10
Cook Islands 
95 
98 
88 
100 
100 100 
95 
–  
–  
19 d 
–  
–  
–
Costa Rica 
98 
99 
96 
96 
96 
95 
91 
–  
–  
15  
–  
49  
–
Côte d’Ivoire 
81 
98 
66 
24 
38 
12 
63 
16  
40  
4  
54  
37  
90
Croatia 
99 
100 
98 
99 
99 
98 
96 
–  
–  
23 d 
–  
–  
–
Cuba 
91 
95 
78 
98 
99 
95 
99 
–  
–  
26  
47  
16  
–
Cyprus 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
87 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Czech Republic 
100 
100 
100 
99 
100 
98 
97 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Percentage of population using:
Percentage of children who are:
Improved drinking  
water sources
Improved sanitation 
facilities
Percentage 
of one- 
year-olds  
immunized 
against 
measles
2008
Underweight 
(moderate 
and severe)
Stunted 
(moderate 
and severe)
Exclusively 
breastfed
Breastfed  
with  
comple- 
mentary 
foods
Still  
breastfeeding
Vitamin A  
supplementation  
coverage rate  
(% full coverage)
Country or territory
Total
2006
Urban
2006
Rural
2006
Total
2006
Urban
2006
Rural
2006
0-59 months
2003-2008a
0-59 months
2003-2008a
0-5 months
2003-2008a
6-9 months
2003-2008a
20-23 months
2003-2008a
6-59 months
2008b
50
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 100 
100 
100 
– 
– 
– 
98 
18 c 
45 c 
65  
31  
37  
98
Democratic Republic of the Congo 
46 
82 
29 
31 
42 
25 
67 
25  
46  
36  
82  
64  
85
Denmark 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
89 
–  
–  
–  
–   
–  
–
Djibouti 
92 
98 
54 
67 
76 
11 
73 
31 c 
33 c 
1  
23  
18  
86 
Dominica 
– 
100 
– 
– 
– 
– 
99 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Dominican Republic 
95 
97 
91 
79 
81 
74 
79 
7    
18  
9  
62  
21  
–
Ecuador 
95 
98 
91 
84 
91 
72 
66 
6    
–    
40    
77    
23    
–
Egypt 
98 
99 
98 
66 
85 
52 
92 
6    
29    
53    
66    
35 c 
68 e
El Salvador 
84 
94 
68 
86 
90 
80 
95 
6 c 
19 c 
31    
–    
–    
–
Equatorial Guinea 
43 
45 
42 
51 
60 
46 
51 
16 d 
43 d 
24 d 
–    
–    
–
Eritrea 
60 
74 
57 
5 
14 
3 
95 
35 d 
44 d 
52 d 
43 d 
62 d 
49
Estonia 
100 
100 
99 
95 
96 
94 
95 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Ethiopia 
42 
96 
31 
11 
27 
8 
74 
33    
51    
49    
54    
88 c 
88
Fiji 
47 
43 
51 
71 
87 
55 
94 
–    
–    
40  
–    
–    
–
Finland 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
97 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
France 
100 
100 
100 
– 
– 
– 
87 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Gabon 
87 
95 
47 
36 
37 
30 
55 
8 d 
25 d 
6 d 
62 d 
9 d 
0
Gambia 
86 
91 
81 
52 
50 
55 
91 
16    
28    
41    
44    
53    
28
Georgia 
99 
100 
97 
93 
94 
92 
96 
2    
13    
11    
35    
20    
–
Germany 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
95 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Ghana 
80 
90 
71 
10 
15 
6 
86 
14    
28    
63    
75    
44    
24
Greece 
100 
100 
99 
98 
99 
97 
99 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Grenada 
– 
97 
– 
97 
96 
97 
99 
–    
–    
39 d 
–    
–    
–
Guatemala 
96 
99 
94 
84 
90 
79 
96 
18 d 
54 d 
51 d 
67 d 
47 d 
20
Guinea 
70 
91 
59 
19 
33 
12 
64 
21    
40    
48    
32    
–    
94
Guinea-Bissau 
57 
82 
47 
33 
48 
26 
76 
15    
47    
16    
35    
61    
66
Guyana 
93 
98 
91 
81 
85 
80 
95 
10    
17    
21    
34    
48    
–
Haiti 
58 
70 
51 
19 
29 
12 
58 
18    
29    
41    
87    
35    
–
Holy See 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
–  
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Honduras 
84 
95 
74 
66 
78 
55 
95 
8  
29    
30    
69    
48    
–
Hungary 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
99 
–  
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Iceland 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
96 
–  
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
India 
89 
96 
86 
28 
52 
18 
70 
43  
48    
46    
57    
77    
53
Indonesia 
80 
89 
71 
52 
67 
37 
83 
18  
37    
32    
75    
50    
86
Iran (Islamic Republic of) 
– 
99 
– 
– 
– 
– 
98 
–  
–  
23    
68    
58    
–
Iraq 
77 
88 
56 
76 
80 
69 
69 
6  
26    
25    
51    
36    
–
Ireland 
– 
100 
– 
– 
– 
– 
89 
–  
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Israel 
100 
100 
100 
– 
100 
– 
84 
–  
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Italy 
– 
100 
– 
– 
– 
– 
91 
–  
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Jamaica 
93 
97 
88 
83 
82 
84 
88 
2  
4    
15    
36    
24    
–
Japan 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
97 
–  
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Jordan 
98 
99 
91 
85 
88 
71 
95 
4 d 
12 d 
22    
66    
11    
–
Kazakhstan 
96 
99 
91 
97 
97 
98 
99 
4  
17    
17    
39    
16    
–
Kenya 
57 
85 
49 
42 
19 
48 
90 
–  
–    
13    
84    
57    
27
Kiribati 
65 
77 
53 
33 
46 
20 
72 
–  
–    
80 d 
–    
–    
–
Kuwait 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
99 
–  
–  
12 d 
26 d 
9 d 
–
Percentage of population using:
Percentage of children who are:
Improved drinking  
water sources
Improved sanitation 
facilities
Percentage 
of one- 
year-olds  
immunized 
against 
measles
2008
Underweight 
(moderate 
and severe)
Stunted 
(moderate 
and severe)
Exclusively 
breastfed
Breastfed  
with  
comple- 
mentary 
foods
Still  
breastfeeding
Vitamin A  
supplementation  
coverage rate  
(% full coverage)
Country or territory
Total
2006
Urban
2006
Rural
2006
Total
2006
Urban
2006
Rural
2006
0-59 months
2003-2008a
0-59 months
2003-2008a
0-5 months
2003-2008a
6-9 months
2003-2008a
20-23 months
2003-2008a
6-59 months
2008b
Statistical annex
51
Kyrgyzstan 
89 
99 
83 
93 
94 
93 
99 
2  
18    
32    
49    
26    
99
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
60 
86 
53 
48 
87 
38 
52 
31  
48    
26    
70    
48    
–
Latvia 
99 
100 
96 
78 
82 
71 
97 
–  
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Lebanon 
100 
100 
100 
– 
100 
– 
53 
–  
–    
27 d 
35 d 
11 d 
–
Lesotho 
78 
93 
74 
36 
43 
34 
85 
14 c 
42 c 
36    
79    
60    
–
Liberia 
64 
72 
52 
32 
49 
7 
64 
19  
39    
29    
62    
47    
–
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya 
– 
– 
– 
97 
97 
96 
98 
4 d 
21 d 
–    
–    
23 d 
–
Liechtenstein 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
–  
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Lithuania 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
97 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–  
–
Luxembourg 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
96 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Madagascar 
47 
76 
36 
12 
18 
10 
81 
36    
53    
67    
78    
64    
97
Malawi 
76 
96 
72 
60 
51 
62 
88 
15    
53    
57    
89    
72    
95
Malaysia 
99 
100 
96 
94 
95 
93 
95 
–    
–    
29 d 
–    
12 d 
–
Maldives 
83 
98 
76 
59 
100 
42 
97 
26 d 
32 d 
10 d 
85 d 
–    
–
Mali 
60 
86 
48 
45 
59 
39 
68 
27    
38    
38    
30    
56    
97
Malta 
100 
100 
100 
– 
100 
– 
78 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Marshall Islands 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
94 
–    
–    
31  
77    
53    
–
Mauritania 
60 
70 
54 
24 
44 
10 
65 
24 c 
32 c 
16    
72    
–    
87
Mauritius 
100 
100 
100 
94 
95 
94 
98 
–  
–  
21 d 
–    
–    
–
Mexico 
95 
98 
85 
81 
91 
48 
96 
3    
16    
38 d 
36 d 
21 d 
–
Micronesia (Federated States of) 
94 
95 
94 
25 
61 
14 
92 
–  
–    
60 d 
–    
–    
–
Moldova 
90 
96 
85 
79 
85 
73 
94 
3    
10    
46    
18    
2    
–
Monaco 
– 
100 
– 
– 
100 
– 
99 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Mongolia 
72 
90 
48 
50 
64 
31 
97 
5    
27    
57    
57    
65    
–
Montenegro 
98 
100 
96 
91 
96 
86 
89 
2    
7    
19    
35    
13    
–
Morocco 
83 
100 
58 
72 
85 
54 
96 
9    
23    
31    
66    
15    
–
Mozambique 
42 
71 
26 
31 
53 
19 
77 
–    
–    
37    
84    
54    
83
Myanmar 
80 
80 
80 
82 
85 
81 
82 
30    
41    
15    
66    
67    
94
Namibia 
93 
99 
90 
35 
66 
18 
73 
17    
29    
24    
72    
28    
–
Nauru 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
99 
5    
24    
67    
65    
65 c 
–
Nepal 
89 
94 
88 
27 
45 
24 
79 
39    
49    
53    
75    
95    
93
Netherlands 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
96 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
New Zealand 
– 
100 
– 
– 
– 
– 
86 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Nicaragua 
79 
90 
63 
48 
57 
34 
99 
6    
22    
31    
76    
43    
–
Niger 
42 
91 
32 
7 
27 
3 
80 
36 c 
47 c 
4    
66    
–    
92
Nigeria 
47 
65 
30 
30 
35 
25 
62 
23    
41    
13    
75    
32    
74
Niue 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
99 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Norway 
100 
100 
100 
– 
– 
– 
93 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Occupied Palestinian Territory 
89 
90 
88 
80 
84 
69 
96 
–    
–    
27    
–    
–    
–
Oman 
– 
– 
– 
– 
97 
– 
99 
11 d 
13 d 
–    
91 d 
73 d 
–
Pakistan 
90 
95 
87 
58 
90 
40 
85 
31 d 
42 d 
37    
36    
55    
97
Palau 
89 
79 
94 
67 
96 
52 
97 
–    
–    
59 d 
–    
–    
–
Panama 
92 
96 
81 
74 
78 
63 
85 
6 d 
22 d 
25 d 
38 d 
21 d 
–
Papua New Guinea 
40 
88 
32 
45 
67 
41 
54 
18 c 
43 c 
56  
76  
72  
–
Paraguay 
77 
94 
52 
70 
89 
42 
77 
3    
18    
22    
60    
–    
–
Peru 
84 
92 
63 
72 
85 
36 
90 
6    
30    
69    
–    
–    
–
(continued)
Percentage of population using:
Percentage of children who are:
Improved drinking  
water sources
Improved sanitation 
facilities
Percentage 
of one- 
year-olds  
immunized 
against 
measles
2008
Underweight 
(moderate 
and severe)
Stunted 
(moderate 
and severe)
Exclusively 
breastfed
Breastfed  
with  
comple- 
mentary 
foods
Still  
breastfeeding
Vitamin A  
supplementation  
coverage rate  
(% full coverage)
Country or territory
Total
2006
Urban
2006
Rural
2006
Total
2006
Urban
2006
Rural
2006
0-59 months
2003-2008a
0-59 months
2003-2008a
0-5 months
2003-2008a
6-9 months
2003-2008a
20-23 months
2003-2008a
6-59 months
2008b
TABLE 
2
Diarrhoea prevention indicators
52
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Philippines 
93 
96 
88 
78 
81 
72 
92 
21    
34    
34    
58    
34    
86
Poland 
– 
100 
– 
– 
– 
– 
98 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Portugal 
99 
99 
100 
99 
99 
98 
97 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Qatar 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
92 
–  
–  
12 d 
48 d 
21 d 
–
Republic of Korea 
– 
97 
– 
– 
– 
– 
92 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Romania 
88 
99 
76 
72 
88 
54 
97 
4 d 
13 d 
16    
41    
–    
–
Russian Federation 
97 
100 
88 
87 
93 
70 
99 
–  
–  
–    
–    
–    
–
Rwanda 
65 
82 
61 
48 
51 
47 
92 
18    
51    
88    
69    
77    
–
Saint Kitts and Nevis 
99 
99 
99 
96 
96 
96 
99 
–  
–    
56 d 
–    
–    
–
Saint Lucia 
98 
98 
98 
– 
– 
– 
99 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
96 
99 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Samoa 
88 
90 
87 
100 
100 100 
45 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
San Marino 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
73 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Sao Tome and Principe 
86 
88 
83 
24 
29 
18 
93 
7  
29  
60  
60    
18  
23
Saudi Arabia 
– 
97 
– 
– 
100 
– 
97 
–  
–  
31 d 
60 d 
30 d 
–
Senegal 
77 
93 
65 
28 
54 
9 
77 
14    
19    
34    
61    
42    
90
Serbia 
99 
99 
98 
92 
96 
88 
92 
1    
7    
15    
39    
8    
–
Seychelles 
– 
100 
– 
– 
– 100 
99 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Sierra Leone 
53 
83 
32 
11 
20 
5 
60 
21    
36    
11    
73    
50    
12
Singapore 
– 
100 
– 
– 
100 
– 
95 
3 d 
4 d 
–    
–    
–    
–
Slovakia 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
99 
99 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Slovenia 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
96 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Solomon Islands 
70 
94 
65 
32 
98 
18 
60 
12  
33    
74    
81    
67    
–
Somalia 
29 
63 
10 
23 
51 
7 
24 
32    
42    
9    
15    
35    
100
South Africa 
93 
100 
82 
59 
66 
49 
62 
–  
–  
8    
49    
31    
39
Spain 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
98 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Sri Lanka 
82 
98 
79 
86 
89 
86 
98 
22  
18  
76    
86    
83    
–
Sudan 
70 
78 
64 
35 
50 
24 
79 
27    
40    
34    
56    
35    
67
Suriname 
92 
97 
79 
82 
89 
60 
86 
7    
11    
2    
34    
15    
–
Swaziland 
60 
87 
51 
50 
64 
46 
95 
5    
29    
32    
77    
31    
44
Sweden 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
96 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Switzerland 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 100 
87 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
Syrian Arab Republic 
89 
95 
83 
92 
96 
88 
81 
9    
28    
29    
37    
16    
–
Tajikistan  
67 
93 
58 
92 
95 
91 
86 
15    
39    
25    
15    
34    
87
Thailand 
98 
99 
97 
96 
95 
96 
98 
7    
16    
5    
43  
19  
–
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 100 
100 
99 
89 
92 
81 
98 
2    
11    
37 d 
8 d 
10 d 
– 
Timor-Leste 
62 
77 
56 
41 
64 
32 
73 
–    
–    
31    
82    
35    
–
Togo 
59 
86 
40 
12 
24 
3 
77 
21    
27    
48    
70    
–    
64
Tonga 
100 
100 
100 
96 
98 
96 
99 
–    
–    
62 d 
–    
–    
–
Trinidad and Tobago 
94 
97 
93 
92 
92 
92 
91 
–    
–    
13    
43    
22    
–
Tunisia 
94 
99 
84 
85 
96 
64 
98 
–    
–    
6    
61    
15  
–
Turkey 
97 
98 
95 
88 
96 
72 
97 
–    
–    
40    
71    
26 c 
–
Turkmenistan 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
99 
8    
19    
11    
54    
37  
–
Tuvalu 
93 
94 
92 
89 
93 
84 
93 
2    
10    
35    
40    
51 c 
–
Uganda 
64 
90 
60 
33 
29 
34 
68 
16    
38    
60    
80    
54    
67
Ukraine  
97 
97 
97 
93 
97 
83 
94 
–  
–  
18    
55  
6   
–
Percentage of population using:
Percentage of children who are:
Improved drinking  
water sources
Improved sanitation 
facilities
Percentage 
of one- 
year-olds  
immunized 
against 
measles
2008
Underweight 
(moderate 
and severe)
Stunted 
(moderate 
and severe)
Exclusively 
breastfed
Breastfed  
with  
comple- 
mentary 
foods
Still  
breastfeeding
Vitamin A  
supplementation  
coverage rate  
(% full coverage)
Country or territory
Total
2006
Urban
2006
Rural
2006
Total
2006
Urban
2006
Rural
2006
0-59 months
2003-2008a
0-59 months
2003-2008a
0-5 months
2003-2008a
6-9 months
2003-2008a
20-23 months
2003-2008a
6-59 months
2008b
Statistical annex
53
United Arab Emirates 
100 
100 
100 
97 
98 
95 
92 
–  
–  
34 d 
52 d 
29 d 
–
United Kingdom 
100 
100 
100 
– 
– 
– 
86 
–    
–    
–    
–    
–    
–
United Republic of Tanzania 
55 
81 
46 
33 
31 
34 
88 
17    
44    
41    
91    
55    
93
United States 
99 
100 
94 
100 
100 
99 
92 
1 d 
3 d 
–    
–    
–    
–
Uruguay 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
99 
95 
5 d 
15 d 
57    
35    
28    
–
Uzbekistan 
88 
98 
82 
96 
97 
95 
98 
4    
19    
26    
45    
38    
38
Vanuatu 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
65 
–    
–    
40  
62  
32  
–
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
82 
–    
–    
7 d 
50 d 
31 d 
–
Viet Nam 
92 
98 
90 
65 
88 
56 
92 
–    
–    
17    
70    
23    
98 e
Yemen 
66 
68 
65 
46 
88 
30 
62 
43    
58    
12    
76    
–    
–
Zambia 
58 
90 
41 
52 
55 
51 
85 
15    
45    
61    
93    
42  
96
Zimbabwe 
81 
98 
72 
46 
63 
37 
66 
12    
33    
22    
79    
40 c 
–
AFRICA 
64 
84 
51 
38 
53 
29 
74 
21  
40  
32  
69  
49  
73
Sub-Saharan Africa 
58 
81 
46 
31 
42 
24 
72 
23  
42  
31  
70  
52  
74
Eastern and Southern Africa 
59 
88 
48 
34 
48 
28 
77 
23  
45  
42  
72  
61  
75
West and Central Africa 
56 
77 
41 
27 
37 
20 
66 
22  
40  
22  
70  
45  
73
Middle East and North Africa 
87 
94 
78 
73 
87 
53 
86 
14  
32  
30  
60  
34  
–
ASIA 
87 
96 
82 
51 
69 
41 
82 
27  
36  
41  
51  
53  
70 f
South Asia 
87 
94 
84 
33 
57 
23 
74 
42  
48  
45  
55  
75  
64
East Asia and Paciﬁc 
88 
96 
81 
66 
75 
59 
91 
11  
22  
–  
45  
26  
89 f
Latin America and Caribbean 
92 
97 
73 
78 
86 
52 
93 
4  
14  
41  
69  
28  
–
CEE/CIS 
95 
99 
88 
89 
94 
79 
96 
–  
–  
27  
53  
23  
–
Industrialized countries 
100 
100 
98 
100 
100 
99 
93 
–  
–  
–  
–  
–  
–
Developing countries 
84 
94 
76 
53 
71 
39 
81 
23  
34  
37  
58  
50  
71 f
Least developed countries 
62 
81 
55 
33 
49 
27 
76 
28  
45  
39  
69  
67  
85
World 
87 
96 
78 
62 
79 
45 
83 
23  
34  
37  
57  
49  
71 f
Source: 
United Nations Children’s Fund, The State of the World’s Children 2010 (forthcoming).
Data are as of 15 August 2009.
Notes:
(a) Data refer to the most recent year available during the period speciﬁed in the column heading.
(b) The percentage of children reached with two doses in 2008 is reported as the lower percentage of two coverage points. ‘0’ (zero) indicates that only one dose was delivered in 2008. 
(c) Data refer to the years or periods other than those speciﬁed in the column heading, differ from the standard indicator deﬁnition or refer to only part of a country.  
 
Such data are included in the calculation of global and regional averages.
(d) Data refer to the years or periods other than those speciﬁed in the column heading, differ from the standard indicator deﬁnition or refer to only part of a country.  
 
Such data are not included in the calculation of global and regional averages.
(e)  Identiﬁes countries with national vitamin A supplementation programmes targeted toward a reduced age range. Coverage ﬁgure is reported as targeted. 
(f)  Excludes China.
Indicator deﬁnitions:
Underweight (moderate and severe): Percentage of children aged 0-59 months who are below minus two standard deviations from median weight for age of the WHO Child Growth Standards  
published in 2006.
Stunting (moderate and severe): Percentage of children aged 0-59 months who are below minus two standard deviations from median height for age of the WHO Child Growth Standards published  
in 2006.
Vitamin A supplementation (full coverage): Percentage of children aged 6-59 months who received 2 doses of vitamin A supplements in 2008.
Measles immunization: Percentage of one-year-old children immunized against measles 
Improved drinking water: Percentage of the population using improved drinking water sources.
Improved sanitation facilities: Percentage of the population using improved sanitation facilities.
Percentage of population using:
Percentage of children who are:
Improved drinking  
water sources
Improved sanitation 
facilities
Percentage 
of one- 
year-olds  
immunized 
against 
measles
2008
Underweight 
(moderate 
and severe)
Stunted 
(moderate 
and severe)
Exclusively 
breastfed
Breastfed  
with  
comple- 
mentary 
foods
Still  
breastfeeding
Vitamin A  
supplementation  
coverage rate  
(% full coverage)
Country or territory
Total
2006
Urban
2006
Rural
2006
Total
2006
Urban
2006
Rural
2006
0-59 months
2003-2008a
0-59 months
2003-2008a
0-5 months
2003-2008a
6-9 months
2003-2008a
20-23 months
2003-2008a
6-59 months
2008b
(continued)
TABLE 
2
Diarrhoea prevention indicators
54
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving oral rehydration therapy 
 (ORS packet or recommended homemade ﬂuids or increased ﬂuids) with continued feeding
Gender
Residence
Wealth index quintiles
Country or territory
Year
Total
Male
Female
Urban
Rural
Poorest
Second
Middle
Fourth
Richest
Source
TABLE 
3
Use of oral rehydration therapy with continued feeding, by background characteristics
Albania 
2000 
51 
44 
62 
52 
50 
55 
41 
51 
48 
54 
MICS 2000
Albania 
2005 
50 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2005
Algeria 
2006 
24 
21 
27 
26 
23 
19 
21 
31 
30 
23 
MICS 2006
Armenia 
2000 
48 
47 
49 
44 
52 
36 
64 
28 
56 
62 
DHS 2000
Armenia 
2005 
59 
64 
51 
62 
56 
53 
58 
44 
68 
78 
DHS 2005
Azerbaijan 
2000 
40 
43 
37 
37 
42 
40 
41 
57 
31 
20 
MICS 2000
Azerbaijan 
2006 
31 
33 
29 
21 
41 
27 
28 
42 
35 
28 
DHS 2006
Bangladesh 
2004 
52 
50 
55 
58 
51 
41 
50 
52 
57 
76 
DHS 2004
Bangladesh 
2006 
49 
51 
47 
52 
48 
45 
47 
49 
55 
55 
MICS 2006
Bangladesh 
2007 
68 
71 
65 
70 
68 
57 
73 
70 
73 
70 
DHS 2007
Belarus 
2005 
54 
66 
44 
53 
56 
– 
59 
– 
46 
– 
MICS 2005
Belize 
2006 
26 
– 
– 
– 
20 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2006
Benin 
2001 
42 
47 
37 
48 
40 
41 
31 
49 
46 
46 
DHS 2001
Benin 
2006 
42 
44 
39 
43 
41 
40 
44 
38 
42 
47 
DHS 2006
Bolivia, Plurinational State of 
2000 
59 
60 
58 
64 
53 
51 
57 
67 
63 
65 
MICS 2000
Bolivia, Plurinational State of 
2003 
54 
57 
50 
56 
52 
48 
54 
55 
57 
64 
DHS 2003
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
2000 
23 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2000
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
2005-2006 
53 
60 
40 
42 
58 
58 
63 
49 
47 
47 
MICS 2005-2006
Botswana 
2000 
7 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2000
Burkina Faso 
2003 
47 
49 
45 
56 
46 
44 
41 
46 
53 
56 
DHS 2003
Burkina Faso 
2006 
42 
41 
44 
52 
41 
38 
41 
45 
38 
53 
MICS 2006
Burundi 
2000 
16 
17 
14 
18 
15 
15 
14 
14 
19 
17 
MICS 2000
Burundi 
2005 
23 
24 
23 
27 
23 
22 
19 
20 
30 
27 
MICS 2005
Cambodia 
2005 
50 
51 
48 
45 
51 
56 
51 
52 
43 
37 
DHS 2005
Cameroon 
2000 
32 
35 
30 
36 
31 
34 
35 
27 
24 
46 
MICS 2000
Cameroon 
2004 
43 
42 
45 
47 
41 
38 
40 
46 
47 
60 
DHS 2004
Cameroon 
2006 
22 
20 
24 
29 
18 
16 
19 
24 
25 
45 
MICS 2006
Central African Republic  
2000 
47 
47 
46 
47 
46 
42 
49 
50 
45 
48 
MICS 2000
Central African Republic  
2006 
47 
46 
48 
52 
43 
39 
44 
41 
54 
55 
MICS 2006
Chad 
2000 
44 
46 
43 
40 
48 
44 
40 
45 
54 
34 
MICS 2000
Chad 
2004 
27 
28 
27 
39 
25 
10 
29 
24 
30 
38 
DHS 2004
Colombia 
2000 
44 
44 
43 
47 
38 
40 
44 
45 
40 
54 
DHS 2000
Colombia 
2005 
39 
41 
36 
40 
37 
37 
41 
34 
40 
47 
DHS 2005
Comoros 
2000 
31 
32 
30 
48 
27 
31 
29 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2000
Congo 
2005 
39 
39 
39 
40 
38 
36 
38 
38 
43 
45 
DHS 2005
Côte d’Ivoire 
2000 
34 
35 
33 
36 
33 
31 
32 
36 
37 
35 
MICS 2000
Côte d’Ivoire 
2006 
45 
44 
46 
48 
43 
44 
45 
38 
46 
60 
MICS 2006
Democratic Republic of the Congo 
2001 
17 
17 
15 
18 
16 
17 
17 
19 
15 
15 
MICS 2001
Democratic Republic of the Congo 
2007 
42 
45 
40 
41 
43 
39 
41 
47 
44 
40 
MICS 2007
Djibouti 
2006 
33 
28 
39 
32 
63 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2006
Dominican Republic 
2000 
53 
51 
55 
58 
49 
53 
50 
53 
51 
69 
MICS 2000
Dominican Republic 
2002 
42 
41 
43 
40 
44 
48 
40 
35 
49 
33 
DHS 2002
Dominican Republic 
2007 
55 
54 
57 
58 
51 
54 
58 
50 
59 
57 
DHS 2007
Egypt 
2000 
29 
30 
27 
22 
32 
32 
28 
33 
23 
24 
DHS 2000
Egypt 
2003 
26 
26 
25 
22 
28 
29 
27 
26 
23 
22 
DHS 2003
Egypt 
2005 
27 
27 
28 
23 
29 
32 
28 
28 
23 
21 
DHS 2005
Egypt 
2008 
19 
22 
16 
17 
20 
21 
24 
22 
12 
14 
DHS 2008
Equatorial Guinea 
2000 
36 
36 
36 
34 
37 
33 
38 
50 
35 
28 
MICS 2000
Eritrea 
2002 
54 
56 
51 
67 
49 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
DHS 2002
Ethiopia 
2005 
15 
15 
15 
28 
14 
10 
10 
17 
15 
30 
DHS 2005
Statistical annex
55
Gabon  
2000 
44 
43 
45 
46 
37 
37 
42 
50 
44 
45 
DHS 2000
Gambia 
2000 
38 
39 
36 
37 
38 
34 
45 
33 
38 
41 
MICS 2000
Gambia 
2006 
38 
39 
37 
32 
40 
34 
37 
43 
41 
33 
MICS 2006
Georgia 
2005 
37 
36 
37 
41 
32 
– 
– 
43 
27 
– 
MICS 2005
Ghana 
2003 
40 
41 
39 
47 
37 
35 
34 
46 
35 
63 
DHS 2003
Ghana 
2006 
29 
29 
28 
29 
28 
31 
22 
21 
42 
33 
MICS 2006
Guatemala 
1999 
22 
19 
26 
26 
20 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 1999
Guinea 
2003 
44 
43 
44 
39 
45 
40 
48 
49 
39 
38 
MICS 2003
Guinea 
2005 
38 
36 
39 
40 
37 
32 
31 
41 
43 
45 
DHS 2005
Guinea-Bissau 
2000 
23 
23 
22 
22 
23 
22 
25 
20 
22 
25 
MICS 2000
Guinea-Bissau 
2006 
25 
28 
22 
28 
24 
25 
25 
24 
22 
33 
MICS 2006
Guyana 
2000 
40 
36 
44 
35 
41 
43 
50 
33 
42 
18 
MICS 2000
Guyana 
2006-2007 
28 
27 
30 
– 
23 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2006-2007
Haiti 
2000 
41 
40 
41 
51 
36 
34 
38 
35 
47 
56 
DHS 2000
Haiti 
2005-2006 
43 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
DHS 2005
Honduras 
2005-2006 
49 
50 
48 
51 
49 
45 
49 
51 
53 
52 
DHS 2005-2006
India 
2005-2006 
33 
34 
31 
38 
31 
29 
29 
31 
35 
45 
DHS 2005-2006
Indonesia 
2000 
61 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2000
Indonesia 
2002-2003 
56 
53 
59 
59 
53 
58 
47 
59 
57 
62 
DHS 2002-2003
Indonesia 
2007 
54 
56 
52 
52 
56 
55 
56 
58 
53 
48 
DHS 2007
Iraq 
2000 
54 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2000
Iraq 
2006 
64 
66 
61 
62 
67 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2006
Jamaica 
2000 
21 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2000
Jamaica 
2005 
39 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2005
Jordan 
2002 
44 
43 
44 
44 
43 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
DHS 2002
Jordan 
2007 
32 
30 
35 
31 
36 
32 
30 
37 
25 
35 
DHS 2007
Kazakhstan 
2006 
48 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2006
Kenya 
2000 
15 
16 
14 
16 
12 
14 
16 
14 
16 
14 
MICS 2000
Kenya 
2003 
33 
32 
35 
36 
33 
30 
31 
36 
31 
40 
DHS 2003
Kyrgyzstan 
2006 
22 
16 
32 
26 
21 
49 
12 
14 
22 
20 
MICS 2006
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
2000 
37 
40 
34 
64 
30 
30 
45 
40 
43 
34 
MICS 2000
Lao People’s Democratic Republic 
2006 
49 
53 
44 
– 
47 
50 
40 
48 
52 
– 
MICS 2006
Lesotho 
2000 
29 
29 
29 
33 
28 
28 
32 
27 
29 
28 
MICS 2000
Lesotho 
2004 
53 
54 
51 
47 
54 
52 
51 
52 
58 
56 
DHS 2004
Liberia 
2007 
47 
48 
46 
50 
46 
40 
41 
52 
53 
56 
DHS 2007
Madagascar 
2000 
47 
46 
48 
55 
45 
44 
42 
49 
53 
64 
MICS 2000
Madagascar 
2003-2004 
47 
48 
46 
60 
44 
42 
41 
50 
50 
64 
DHS 2003-2004
Malawi 
2000 
51 
50 
53 
53 
51 
46 
54 
50 
53 
57 
DHS 2000
Malawi 
2004 
54 
57 
51 
68 
52 
47 
53 
51 
61 
63 
DHS 2004
Malawi 
2006 
27 
28 
25 
36 
25 
24 
25 
24 
29 
34 
MICS 2006
Mali 
2001 
45 
44 
47 
56 
43 
43 
45 
42 
43 
61 
DHS 2001
Mali 
2006 
38 
38 
37 
43 
37 
32 
36 
40 
36 
51 
DHS 2006
Mauritania  
2000-2001 
9 
9 
9 
8 
10 
10 
14 
8 
7 
5 
DHS 2000-2001
Mauritania  
2007 
32 
32 
32 
39 
28 
25 
25 
37 
42 
37 
MICS 2007
Moldova  
2000 
52 
47 
56 
45 
58 
42 
68 
50 
64 
32 
MICS 2000
Moldova  
2005 
48 
48 
49 
43 
56 
43 
83 
53 
37 
51 
DHS 2005
Mongolia 
2000 
66 
67 
64 
67 
64 
59 
66 
68 
66 
68 
MICS 2000
Mongolia 
2005 
47 
46 
48 
42 
49 
47 
40 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2005
Montenegro 
2005 
64 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2005
Morocco 
2003-2004 
46 
43 
48 
51 
41 
37 
50 
45 
51 
50 
DHS 2003-2004
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving oral rehydration therapy 
 (ORS packet or recommended homemade ﬂuids or increased ﬂuids) with continued feeding
Gender
Residence
Wealth index quintiles
Country or territory
Year
Total
Male
Female
Urban
Rural
Poorest
Second
Middle
Fourth
Richest
Source
(continued)
TABLE 
3
Use of oral rehydration therapy with continued feeding, by background characteristics
56
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
Mozambique 
2003 
47 
46 
47 
57 
41 
40 
42 
46 
48 
60 
DHS 2003
Mozambique 
2008 
47 
46 
48 
51 
45 
41 
45 
47 
49 
55 
MICS 2008
Myanmar 
2000 
48 
48 
49 
70 
44 
39 
42 
59 
56 
63 
MICS 2000
Myanmar 
2003 
65 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2003
Namibia 
2000 
39 
42 
36 
48 
34 
31 
32 
41 
42 
51 
DHS 2000
Namibia 
2006-2007 
48 
48 
48 
52 
45 
32 
55 
48 
61 
47 
DHS 2006-2007
Nepal 
2006 
37 
41 
32 
39 
37 
25 
36 
34 
43 
57 
DHS 2006
Nicaragua 
2001 
49 
52 
45 
51 
47 
44 
51 
47 
48 
63 
DHS 2001
Niger 
2000 
43 
44 
42 
51 
42 
48 
35 
44 
34 
55 
MICS 2000
Niger 
2006 
34 
35 
33 
47 
32 
31 
31 
34 
30 
46 
DHS 2006
Nigeria 
2003 
28 
30 
25 
32 
26 
16 
23 
33 
32 
53 
DHS 2003
Pakistan 
2006-2007 
37 
36 
37 
38 
36 
32 
36 
34 
39 
45 
DHS 2006-2007
Peru 
2004-2006 
60 
61 
59 
66 
53 
52 
56 
60 
68 
75 
DHS 2004-2006
Philippines 
2003 
76 
75 
77 
81 
70 
70 
77 
80 
77 
83 
DHS 2003
Rwanda 
2000 
20 
20 
21 
31 
19 
18 
17 
19 
21 
29 
DHS 2000
Rwanda 
2000 
16 
18 
14 
22 
16 
17 
14 
14 
17 
28 
MICS 2000
Rwanda 
2005 
24 
24 
23 
30 
23 
21 
18 
23 
29 
31 
DHS 2005
Sao Tome and Principe 
2000 
50 
51 
49 
56 
49 
36 
49 
56 
55 
57 
MICS 2000
Sao Tome and Principe 
2006 
63 
62 
64 
64 
62 
66 
61 
61 
63 
64 
MICS 2006
Senegal 
2000 
34 
35 
32 
39 
32 
26 
32 
33 
43 
41 
MICS 2000
Senegal 
2005 
43 
44 
40 
44 
42 
40 
43 
41 
46 
44 
DHS 2005
Serbia 
2005 
71 
73 
68 
76 
64 
63 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2005
Sierra Leone 
2000 
39 
38 
39 
37 
39 
33 
42 
41 
46 
29 
MICS 2000
Sierra Leone 
2005 
31 
30 
33 
27 
32 
36 
30 
28 
31 
32 
MICS 2005
Somalia 
2006 
7 
7 
6 
9 
6 
5 
4 
7 
9 
11 
MICS 2006
Sudan (north) 
2000 
38 
38 
38 
43 
33 
28 
35 
39 
44 
45 
MICS 2000
Sudan 
2006 
56 
56 
56 
– 
– 
53 
54 
57 
63 
59 
ONS 2006
Suriname 
2000 
43 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2000
Suriname 
2006 
28 
25 
30 
26 
29 
23 
31 
37 
28 
31 
MICS 2006
Swaziland 
2000 
25 
25 
23 
26 
23 
17 
33 
23 
23 
30 
MICS 2000
Swaziland 
2006-2007 
22 
25 
19 
19 
23 
21 
29 
23 
25 
15 
DHS 2006
Syrian Arab Republic 
2006 
34 
36 
32 
33 
35 
37 
33 
33 
31 
38 
MICS 2006
Tajikistan  
2000 
29 
29 
28 
16 
31 
31 
27 
31 
35 
14 
MICS 2000
Tajikistan  
2005 
22 
23 
21 
28 
20 
20 
19 
13 
35 
26 
MICS 2005
Thailand 
2005-2006 
46 
44 
49 
42 
48 
43 
56 
44 
47 
45 
MICS 2005-2006
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 2005 
45 
26 
57 
61 
23 
20 
61 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2005
Togo 
2000 
25 
24 
27 
27 
25 
23 
30 
22 
21 
35 
MICS 2000
Togo 
2006 
22 
18 
26 
22 
22 
19 
21 
20 
24 
27 
MICS 2006
Tunisia 
2006 
62 
68 
55 
61 
63 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2006
Turkmenistan 
2006 
25 
32 
17 
31 
22 
27 
17 
16 
30 
36 
MICS 2006
Uganda 
2000-2001 
29 
29 
29 
34 
28 
25 
26 
29 
31 
41 
DHS 2000-2001
Uganda 
2006 
39 
41 
38 
48 
39 
39 
35 
39 
43 
44 
DHS 2006
United Republic of Tanzania 
2004-2005 
53 
53 
53 
59 
52 
49 
54 
52 
53 
62 
DHS 2004-2005
Uzbekistan 
2000 
33 
39 
25 
30 
34 
36 
45 
30 
35 
19 
MICS 2000
Uzbekistan 
2006 
28 
24 
– 
– 
31 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2006
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of) 
2000 
51 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2000
Viet Nam 
2000 
24 
24 
24 
30 
23 
23 
31 
19 
15 
31 
MICS 2000
Viet Nam 
2006 
65 
63 
67 
– 
65 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
MICS 2006
Yemen 
2006 
48 
47 
49 
50 
47 
41 
50 
45 
51 
54 
MICS 2006
Zambia 
1999 
65 
63 
67 
64 
66 
57 
74 
58 
64 
68 
MICS 1999
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving oral rehydration therapy 
 (ORS packet or recommended homemade ﬂuids or increased ﬂuids) with continued feeding
Gender
Residence
Wealth index quintiles
Country or territory
Year
Total
Male
Female
Urban
Rural
Poorest
Second
Middle
Fourth
Richest
Source
Statistical annex
57
Zambia 
2001-2002 
48 
51 
45 
51 
47 
43 
47 
48 
52 
54 
DHS 2001-2002
Zambia 
2007 
56 
55 
57 
59 
55 
53 
57 
51 
57 
65 
DHS 2007
Zimbabwe 
2005-2006 
47 
48 
46 
59 
43 
39 
45 
51 
48 
61 
DHS 2005-2006
Source: 
Data are from the UNICEF global diarrhoea databases, which include survey data from Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS) and other national  
surveys (ONS).
Note that these data do not appear in most ﬁnal DHS reports. Instead, data from these surveys have been re-analysed to conform to the deﬁnition of this indicator.
The complete diarrhoea treatment databases (including time series, disparities and detailed source information for other treatment indicators) are available at: www.childinfo.org. 
Data are as of 15 August 2009.
Percentage of children under ﬁve with diarrhoea receiving oral rehydration therapy 
 (ORS packet or recommended homemade ﬂuids or increased ﬂuids) with continued feeding
Gender
Residence
Wealth index quintiles
Country or territory
Year
Total
Male
Female
Urban
Rural
Poorest
Second
Middle
Fourth
Richest
Source
(continued)
TABLE 
3
Use of oral rehydration therapy with continued feeding, by background characteristics
58
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done 
PHOTO CREDITS: Cover ©Jean D’Avignon; Page i Top left ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-
0005/Pallava Bagla, Top right ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-1148/Kent Page, Bottom 
left ©UNICEF/NYHQ2002-0007/Paula Bronstein, Bottom middle ©UNICEF/
NYHQ2005-0676/Boris Heger, Bottom right ©UNICEF/NYHQ1993-0148/ 
Roger LeMoyne; Page iii ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-2412/Anita Khemka; 
Page v ©UNICEF/NYHQ2008-1451/Guillaume Bonn; Page vi ©UNICEF/
NYHQ2005-1148/Kent Page; Page 1 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-1148/Kent Page; 
P.2 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-1028/; P. 3 Top ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-1148/Kent 
Page, Bottom ©UNICEF/NYHQ2008-1479/Christine Nesbitt; P.4 ©UNICEF/
NYHQ1993-0148/Roger LeMoyne; P.5 Top ©UNICEF/NYHQ1993-0148/
Roger LeMoyne, Bottom ©UNICEF/NYHQ2008-1475/Christine Nesbitt; P.6 
©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-1040/Radhika Chalasani; P.7 Top ©UNICEF/NYHQ1993-
0148/Roger LeMoyne, Bottom ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-2385/Anita Khemka;  
P. 8 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-0676/Boris Heger; P. 9 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-0676/
Boris Heger; P.11 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-0676/Boris Heger; P.12 Left ©UNICEF/
NYHQ2006-1846/Josh Estey, Right ©UNICEF/NYHQ2008-1117/Christine  
Nesbitt; P.13 Top ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-0676/Boris Heger, Bottom left ©UNICEF/
NYHQ2007-1676/Giacomo Pirozzi, Top right ©UNICEF/NYHQ2009-0225/ 
Josh Estey; P.14 Left ©UNICEF/NYHQ2008-1647/Giacomo Pirozzi, Right 
©UNICEF/NYHQ2006-1800/Josh Estey; P.15 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-0676/
Boris Heger; P.16 ©UNICEF/NYHQ1993-1471/Roger LeMoyne; P.17 ©UNICEF/
NYHQ2005-0676/Boris Heger; P.18 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2002-0007/Paula 
Bronstein; P.19 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2002-0007/Paula Bronstein; P.21 ©UNICEF/
NYHQ2002-0007/Paula Bronstein; P.23 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2002-0007/Paula 
Bronstein; P.25 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2002-0007/Paula Bronstein; P.27 ©UNICEF/
NYHQ2002-0007/Paula Bronstein; P.29 Top ©UNICEF/NYHQ2002-0007/
Paula Bronstein, Bottom ©UNICEF/NYHQ2007-0649/Giacomo Pirozzi;  
P.30 © UNICEF/NYHQ2007-1374/Giacomo Pirozzi; P.31 Top ©UNICEF/
NYHQ2007-1374/Giacomo Pirozzi, Bottom left ©UNICEF/NYHQ2004-0519/
Jeremy Horner, Bottom right ©UNICEF/NYHQ2007-0804/Nicole Toutounji; 
P.33 Top ©UNICEF/NYHQ2007-1374/Giacomo Pirozzi , Bottom ©UNICEF/
NYHQ2008-1451/Guillaume Bonn; P.34 Left ©UNICEF/NYHQ2007-0107/
Thierry Delvigne-Jean, Right ©UNICEF/NYHQ2000-0575/Shehzad Noorani; 
P.35 Top ©UNICEF/NYHQ2007-1374/Giacomo Pirozzi, Bottom ©UNICEF/
NYHQ2008-1439/Guillaume Bonn; P. 36 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-0005/Pallava 
Bagla; P. 37 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2005-0005/Pallava Bagla; P.39 Top ©UNICEF/
NYHQ2005-0005/Pallava Bagla, Bottom ©UNICEF/NYHQ2006-0172/Michael 
Kamber; P.41 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2007-0364/Dan Thomas; P.43 ©UNICEF/
NYHQ2007-0364/Dan Thomas; P.44 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2008-1190/Kate Holt; 
P.45 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2008-1190/Kate Holt; P.47 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2008-
1190/Kate Holt; P.49 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2008-1190/Kate Holt; P.51 ©UNICEF/
NYHQ2008-1190/Kate Holt; P.53 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2008-1190/Kate Holt; 
P.55 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2008-1190/Kate Holt; P.57 ©UNICEF/NYHQ2008-1190/
Kate Holt
DESIGN: Emerson, Wajdowicz Studios / NYC / www.designEWS.com
Did you know?
Oral rehydration therapy and continued feeding is a life-saving treatment, which only 39 
per cent of children with diarrhoea in developing countries receive. Limited data show little progress since 2000.
Zinc tablets are still largely unavailable in most developing countries, although their effectiveness in reducing 
the severity and duration of diarrhoea episodes is well known. 
Immunization against rotavirus, which results in an estimated 40 per cent of hospital admissions 
due to diarrhoea among children under ﬁve, is urgently needed worldwide, especially in Africa and Asia.
Safe water, adequate sanitation and proper hygiene are too often forgotten foundations of 
good health. Handwashing with soap alone could potentially reduce the number of diarrhoea cases by over 40 per cent. 
Breastfeeding is critical to both the prevention and treatment of diarrhoea. Infants who are exclusively 
breastfed for the ﬁrst six months of life and continue to be breastfed until two years of age and beyond develop  
fewer infections and have less severe illnesses, including diarrhoea. 
Vitamin A supplementation has been shown to signiﬁcantly reduce child deaths, mostly from 
diarrhoea and measles. 
iarrhoea remains the second most common cause of death among  
children under ﬁve globally. Nearly one in ﬁve child deaths – about  
1.5 million each year – is due to diarrhoea. It kills more young  
children than AIDS, malaria and measles combined.
This report puts forward a new, 7-point plan for comprehensive diarrhoea  
control. The plan includes a treatment package to signiﬁcantly reduce child 
deaths due to diarrhoea, and a prevention package to make a lasting reduction 
in the diarrhoea burden for years to come. But intensiﬁed eﬀorts on both  
fronts must begin right away. 
United Nations Children’s Fund 
3 United Nations Plaza, New York, NY 10017 
World Health Organization 
20 Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland
ISBN: 978-92-806-4462-3 (UNICEF)
ISBN: 978-92-4-159841-5 (NLM classiﬁcation: WS 312) (WHO)
D
