i
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Ending Preventable Child 
Deaths from Pneumonia 
and Diarrhoea by 2025
The integrated Global Action Plan
for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
WHO Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
End preventable deaths: Global Action Plan for Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea.
1. Pneumonia – prevention and control • 2. Diarrhea – prevention and control • 3.Child mortality – prevention and control 
4.Child welfare • 5.National health programs • 6.Developing countries • I.World Health Organization
ISBN 978 92 4 150523 9	
	
	
	
(NLM classification: WC 207)
© World Health Organization/The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) 2013
All rights reserved. Publications of the World Health Organization are available on the WHO web site (www.who.int) or can 
be purchased from WHO Press, World Health Organization, 20 Avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland (tel.: +41 22 791 
3264; fax: +41 22 791 4857; e-mail: bookorders@who.int). 
Requests for permission to reproduce or translate WHO publications –whether for sale or for non-commercial distribution– 
should be addressed to WHO Press through the WHO web site (www.who.int/about/licensing/copyright_form/en/index.
html).
The designations employed and the presentation of the material in this publication do not imply the expression of any 
opinion whatsoever on the part of the World Health Organization concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city 
or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. Dotted lines on maps represent 
approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full agreement.
The mention of specific companies or of certain manufacturers’ products does not imply that they are endorsed or 
recommended by the World Health Organization in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned. Errors 
and omissions excepted, the names of proprietary products are distinguished by initial capital letters.
All reasonable precautions have been taken by the World Health Organization to verify the information contained in this 
publication. However, the published material is being distributed without warranty of any kind, either expressed or implied. 
The responsibility for the interpretation and use of the material lies with the reader. In no event shall the World Health 
Organization be liable for damages arising from its use. 
Design and layout by: www.paprika-annecy.com
Printed in France.
Ending Preventable Child 
Deaths from Pneumonia 
and Diarrhoea by 2025
The integrated Global Action Plan
for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
1
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Table of contents
Acknowledgements	
2
Abbreviations and acronyms	
3
Executive Summary	
5
The integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)	
9
1 .  Pneumonia and diarrhoea – major killers of young children	
10
2 .  Pneumonia and diarrhoea and the Millennium Development Goals	
10
3 .  Background and purpose of the action plan	
11
4 .  The GAPPD as part of the global effort to improve women’s and children’s health 	
11
5 .  The Protect, Prevent and Treat framework for pneumonia and diarrhoea interventions	
13
6 .  An environment for change	
16
7 .  Focus on equity and universal health coverage	
17
8 .  Areas needing special attention 	
28
9 .  Monitoring and evaluation	
31
10 .  Global role of partners 	
33
11 .  Research needs	
34
12 .  Opportunities 2013 –2025	
34
13 .  Conclusion	
34
References	
35
ANNEX	
38
Annex 1.  Previous Action Plans for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (summaries)	
38
Annex 2.  Key actions for selected interventions	
40
Annex 3.  Planning Framework for Coordinated Approaches for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea Control	
53
Annex 4.  Terms of reference for national working group for pneumonia and diarrhoea prevention and control
	 56
2
Acknowledgements
This action plan was developed largely by WHO and UNICEF staff with contributions from a wide group of partners and 
stakeholders. 
We would like to thank the following organizations and governments for their valuable contributions throughout the process of 
development of the action plan (listed in alphabetical order): 
The Aga Khan University 
The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 
Boston University School of Public Health
Clinton Health Access Initiative 
Colorado School of Public Health
The GAVI Alliance 
Instituto Nacional de Salud del Niño
International Pediatric Association
Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health 
John Snow Inc. 
The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine 
Management Sciences for Health 
Maternal and Child Health Integrated Program
MDG Health Alliance 
Ministry of Public Health and Sanitation (Government of Kenya) 
One Million Community Health Workers Campaign: The Earth Institute at Columbia University
The Partnership for Maternal, Newborn & Child Health 
PATH 
Population Services International 
Program for Global Pediatric Research, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto
Save the Children 
Tearfund 
United States Agency for International Development (USAID)
Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos
Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia 
University of Edinburgh 
University of Khartoum 
University of Liverpool 
UN Millennium Project 
WaterAid 
Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative Council
World Vision International
Special thanks go to Dr Peggy Henderson (main writer). 
3
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Abbreviations and acronyms
ACT .............. Artemisinin-based combination therapy
ADDO .......... Accredited drug dispensing outlet
AIDS ............ Acquired immuno-deficiency syndrome
ANC ............. Antenatal care
CCM ............ Community case management
CHW ............ Community health worker
CoIA ............ United Nations Commission on Information and Accountability
DHS ............. Demographic and Health Survey
DTP3............. Diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis vaccine
EPI ................ Expanded Programme on Immunization
EWEC........... Every Woman Every Child
GAPP............ Global Action Plan for Prevention and Control of Pneumonia
GAPPD......... The integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea
HAP ............. Household air pollution
HEW ............ Health extension workers
Hib................ Haemophilus influenzae B vaccine
HIV ............... Human immunodeficiency virus
HSS .............. Health system strengthening
HWTS .......... Household water treatment and storage
iCCM ........... Integrated community case management
iERG ............. Independent Expert Review Group
IMCI ............. Integrated Management of Childhood Illness
LPG............... Liquefied Petroleum Gas
MDG ............ Millennium Development Goal
MoH.............. Ministry of Health
NGO ............ Nongovernmental organization
ORS ............. Oral rehydration salts
ORT ............. Oral rehydration treatment
PHC ............. Primary health care
PCV .............. Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine
Spn .............. Streptococcus pneumonia
UNF ............. United Nations Foundation
UNICEF........ United Nations Children’s Fund
USAID .......... United States Agency for International Development
WASH .......... Water, sanitation and hygiene
WHO ........... World Health Organization
4
5
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Executive Summary
Ending two major preventable causes of child death
Stopping the loss of millions of young lives from pneumonia 
and diarrhoea is a goal within our grasp. The integrated Global 
Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and 
Diarrhoea (GAPPD) proposes a cohesive approach to ending 
preventable pneumonia and diarrhoea deaths. It brings 
together critical services and interventions to create healthy 
environments, promotes practices known to protect children 
from disease and ensures that every child has access to proven 
and appropriate preventive and treatment measures.
The goal is ambitious but achievable: to end preventable 
childhood deaths due to pneumonia and diarrhoea by 2025. 
The momentum needed to achieve this goal exists already. 
The world has achieved substantial gains in child survival 
over the past 20 years and extensive work has been done 
to not only meet the Millennium Development Goal for 
2015 on child survival, but also go beyond. The United 
Nations Global Strategy for Women’s and Children’s 
Health, launched in 2010, calls for a “continuum of care” 
approach to services, aiming to save 16 million lives. With 
the Every Woman Every Child (EWEC) movement, efforts 
have continued. In 2012, the call to action Committing to 
Child Survival: A Promise Renewed challenged the global 
community to reduce child mortality to 20 or fewer child 
deaths per 1000 live births in every country by 2035.
Other contributing initiatives include the Global Vaccine 
Action Plan, which sets out a strategy for preventing 
childhood disease through vaccination; the comprehensive 
implementation plan to improve maternal, infant and young 
child nutrition endorsed by WHO Member States; and the 
United Nations Sustainable Energy For All initiative which is 
a public-private commitment to universal access to modern 
energy services by 2030. Moreover, the United Nations 
Commission on Life-Saving Commodities made important 
recommendations to strengthen access to and use of life-
saving commodities including treatment for pneumonia 
and diarrhoea, while the United Nations Commission on 
Information and Accountability paved the way for improved 
monitoring of programmes to protect women’s and 
children’s health. 
Closing the gap: reaching all children with existing interventions
Pneumonia and diarrhoea remain major killers of young 
children. Together, these diseases account for 29% of all 
deaths of children less than 5 years of age and result in the 
loss of 2 million young lives each year. 
Pneumonia | 14%
Other
conditions | 16%
Birth
asphyxia | 9%
Neonatal
deaths
Preterm bith
complications | 14%
Pneumonia | 4%
Neonatal
sepsis | 6%
Others
conditions | 2%
Congenital
abnormalities | 3%
Neonatal tetanus | 1%
Diarrhoea | 1%
Diarrhoea | 10%
NCDs | 4%
Injuries | 5%
Malaria | 7%
HIV/AIDS | 2%
Measles | 1%
 
Thirty-five percent of deaths in children less than five years of age 
are associated with malnutrition.’
Sources: WHO Global Health Observatory (httt://www.who.int/gho/child_health/
en/index.html) and ‘Black R et al. Lancet, 2008, 371:243-260 (5, 6)
Children who are poor, hungry and living in remote areas are 
most likely to be visited by these “forgotten killers” and the 
burden placed by pneumonia and diarrhoea on families and 
health systems aggravates existing inequalities.
The solutions to tackling pneumonia and diarrhoea do not 
require major advances in technology. Proven interventions 
exist. Children are dying because services are provided piece-
meal and those most at risk are not being reached. Use of 
effective interventions remains too low; for instance, only 
39% of infants less than 6 months are exclusively breastfed 
while only 60% of children with suspected pneumonia access 
appropriate care. Moreover, children are not receiving 
life-saving treatment; only 31% of children with suspected 
pneumonia receive antibiotics and only 35% of children with 
diarrhoea receive oral rehydration therapy.
0
20
40
60
80
100
39
75
83
84
43
60
63
89
35
31
Exclusive breastfeeding
Vitamin A supplementation
DTP3 immunization
Measles immunization
HiB3 immunization
Care seeking for pneumonia
Antibiotics for pneumonia
Diarrhoea treatment (ORS)
Improved sanitation facilities
Improved drinking-water
Source: UNICEF’s State of the World’s Children 2013
6
Identifying those children at greatest risk, hardest to reach 
and most neglected, and targeting them with interventions 
of proven efficacy will enable us to close the gap, ultimately 
ending the heavy toll of preventable child deaths. 
Using interventions that work
Research shows that these interventions and activities work: 
•	 Exclusive breastfeeding for six months and continued 
breastfeeding with appropriate complementary feeding 
reduces the onset and severity of diarrhoea and pneumonia. 
•	 Use of vaccines against Streptococcus pneumoniae and 
Haemophilus influenzae type b, the two most common 
bacterial causes of childhood pneumonia, and against 
rotavirus, the most common cause of childhood diarrhoea 
deaths, substantially reduces the disease burden and deaths 
caused by these infectious agents. In response, an increasing 
number of countries are introducing these vaccines. 
•	 Use of vaccines against measles and pertussis substantially 
reduces pneumonia illness and death in children. 
•	 Use of simple, standardized guidelines for the identification 
and treatment of pneumonia and diarrhoea in the community, 
at first-level health facilities and at referral hospitals, such 
as those for integrated management of childhood illness 
(IMCI), substantially reduces child deaths. 
•	 Oral rehydration salts (ORS), and particularly the low-
osmolarity formula, are a proven life-saving commodity 
for the treatment of children with diarrhoea. Use of zinc 
supplements with ORS to treat children with diarrhoea 
reduces deaths in children less than five years of age.
•	 Innovative demand creation activities are important for 
achieving behaviour change and sustaining long-term 
preventive practices.
•	 Water, sanitation and hygiene interventions, including 
access to and use of safe drinking-water and sanitation, as 
well as promotion of key hygiene practices provide health, 
economic and social benefits.
•	 Reduction of household air pollution with improved stoves 
has been shown to reduce severe pneumonia. Safer and 
more efficient energy in the home prevents burns, saves 
time and fuel costs, and contributes to better development 
opportunities.
An integrated approach for saving lives 
The GAPPD provides an integrated framework of key 
interventions proven to effectively prevent and treat 
childhood pneumonia and diarrhoea. Although effective 
interventions have been well established, they are not always 
promoted together to achieve maximum benefit. It is now 
clear that pneumonia and diarrhoea must be addressed in a 
coordinated manner. The determinants are often the same, 
hence preventive strategies and delivery platforms via health 
care facilities, families, communities and schools are similar.
Engaging all sectors and actors
The GAPPD provides a roadmap for national governments and 
their partners to plan and implement integrated approaches 
for the prevention and control of pneumonia and diarrhoea. 
It recognizes that for successful implementation, the effective 
engagement of all relevant stakeholders is key, and it pays 
special tribute to front-line health care providers, especially 
those at the most peripheral levels, as well as communities. 
Protect, Prevent and Treat framework
PROTECT
Children by establishing good health practices from birth
• Exclusive breastfeeding for 6 months
• Adequate complementary feeding
• Vitamin A supplementation
TREAT
Children who are ill from pneumonia and diarrhoea with appropriate treatment
• Improved care seeking and referral
• Case management at the health facility and community level
• Supplies: Low-osmolarity ORS, zinc, antibiotics and oxygen
• Continued feeding (including breastfeeding)
PREVENT
Children becoming ill from pneumonia and diarrhoea
• Vaccines: pertussis, measles, Hib, PCV and rotavirus 
• Handwashing with soap
• Safe drinking-water and sanitation 
• Reduce household air pollution
• HIV prevention
• Cotrimoxazole prophylaxis for HIV-infected 
 and exposed children
Reduce
pneumonia and
diarrhoea
morbidity and 
mortality
7
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
The strategy at a glance
The GAPPD identifies opportunities to better integrate 
activities as well as capture synergies and efficiencies.
It envisions the various interventions for controlling pneumonia 
and diarrhoea in children less than five years of age as: 
•	 protecting children by establishing and promoting good 
health practices; 
•	 preventing children from becoming ill from pneumonia and 
diarrhoea by ensuring universal coverage of immunization, 
HIV prevention and healthy environments; 
•	 treating children who are ill from pneumonia and diarrhoea 
with appropriate treatment. 
A focus on country impact
The Integrated Global Action Plan aims to help countries 
achieve impact by analysing local data, acting on the results 
and monitoring their progress towards clear, achievable goals. 
•	 Goals by 2025: 
reduce mortality from pneumonia in children less than 
5 years of age to fewer than 3 per 1000 live births; 
reduce mortality from diarrhoea in children less than 5 years 
of age to fewer than 1 per 1000 live births;
reduce the incidence of severe pneumonia by 75% in 
children less than 5 years of age compared to 2010 levels;
reduce the incidence of severe diarrhoea by 75% in children 
less than 5 years of age compared to 2010 levels; 
reduce by 40% the global number of children less than 
5 years of age who are stunted compared to 2010 levels. 
•	 Coverage targets: to achieve these goals, the following 
targets will need to be maintained or reached by the end 
of 2025: 
90% full-dose coverage of each relevant vaccine (with 
80% coverage in every district);
90% access to appropriate pneumonia and diarrhoea 
case management (with 80% coverage in every district); 
at least 50% coverage of exclusive breastfeeding during 
the first 6 months of life; 
virtual elimination of paediatric HIV. 
•	 By the end of 2030
universal access to basic drinking-water in health care 
facilities and homes; 
universal access to adequate sanitation in health care 
facilities by 2030 and in homes by 2040; 
universal access to handwashing facilities (water and 
soap) in health care facilities and homes;
universal access to clean and safe energy technologies in 
health care facilities and homes. 
Action at country level
In order to reach the goals, the GAPPD recommends that 
governments and partners: 
•	 Develop a clear country-level strategy and work plan, with 
key responsibilities assigned:
generate political will;
develop/update a situation analysis for pneumonia and 
diarrhoea;
prioritize interventions;
develop/update a costed plan for accelerated action;
identify areas of harmonization and collaboration 
between programmes and sectors, including the private 
sector, academia and civil society;
use data to identify groups at greater risk or missed 
by services and develop targeted approaches to reach 
them;
develop a set of common indicators for tracking progress.
•	 Coordinate implementation of interventions:
designate a national working group for pneumonia and 
diarrhoea prevention and control or review membership 
of an appropriate existing group;
mobilize resources;
apply lessons from other integrated disease prevention 
and control efforts;
track execution and progress;
take and/or assign accountability for action.
•	 Engage and embed critical partners in the overall work 
plan/approach:
involve other programmes and sectors;
involve the private sector and nongovernmental 
organizations;
engage the United Nations agencies and development 
partners.
•	 Other actions:
promote innovations, especially for overcoming barriers 
to service delivery;
generate demand and ensure supply;
focus on implementation research and identify optimal 
modes of delivery of existing interventions in order to 
reach those most in need. 
The targets in the integrated Global Action Plan for the 
Prevention and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea will not 
be achieved without urgent action in the areas listed above 
from national governments as well as supporting partners 
at the global level. Focused, coordinated and integrated 
international, national and sub-national action on pneumonia 
and diarrhoea control is needed to continue sustaining and 
increasing the gains in the reduction of child mortality. This 
document calls on all concerned groups to demonstrate 
their commitment, allocate the required resources, and work 
together to make preventable child deaths due to pneumonia 
and diarrhoea a tragedy of the past. 
8
9
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
The integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of 
Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Ending two major preventable causes of child death
The integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention and 
Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD) proposes a 
cohesive approach to ending preventable pneumonia and 
diarrhoea deaths. It brings together critical services and 
interventions to create healthy environments, promotes 
practices known to protect children from disease, and 
ensures that every child has access to proven and appropriate 
preventive and treatment measures. 
Reaching every child will require the scaling up and targeting 
of interventions known to prevent and control pneumonia 
and diarrhoea. This will be achieved through coordinated and 
collaborative child health and related programmes. Parents, 
communities, community health workers (CHWs), civil society 
and the private sector all have significant roles in enabling this 
vision.
Clear goals and coverage targets for reducing morbidity 
and mortality due to pneumonia and diarrhoea have been 
set from now until 2015 within the context of the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). Though significant progress 
has been made towards these goals, much more can still be 
achieved through accelerated action between now until 2015, 
and beyond. 
The United Nations Global Strategy for Women’s and 
Children’s Health (1), launched in 2010, calls for a continuum 
of care approach to services aiming to save 16 million lives. In 
2012, a call to action for child survival (2) challenged the world 
to reduce child mortality to 20 or fewer child deaths per 1000 
live births in every country by 2035. Thus, it is now necessary 
to look beyond the 2015 deadline set by the MDGs. Revised 
goals and targets consolidating those that have already been 
accomplished, and striving toward achieving those that have 
not yet been reached are needed.
The specific goals for 2025 are to: 
•	 reduce mortality from pneumonia in children less than 
5 years of age to fewer than 3 per 1000 live births; 
•	 reduce mortality from diarrhoea in children less than 5 years 
of age to fewer than 1 per 1000 live births;
•	 reduce the incidence of severe pneumonia by 75% in 
children less than 5 years of age compared to 2010 levels;
•	 reduce the incidence of severe diarrhoea by 75% in children 
less than 5 years of age compared to 2010 levels; 
•	 reduce by 40% the global number of children less than 
5 years of age who are stunted compared to 2010 levels. 
These goals are ambitious and will require significant political 
will and the mobilization of additional resources if they are to 
be reached.
Coverage targets to be maintained or reached have also been 
set to define efforts needed to attain the above goals. These are:
•	 By the end of 2025: 
90% full-dose coverage of each relevant vaccine (with 
80% coverage in every district);
90% access to appropriate pneumonia and diarrhoea 
case management (with 80% coverage in every district); 
at least 50% coverage of exclusive breastfeeding during 
the first 6 months of life; 
virtual elimination of paediatric HIV. 
•	 By the end of 2030:
universal access to basic drinking-water in health care 
facilities and homes; 
universal access to adequate sanitation in health care 
facilities by 2030 and in homes by 2040; 
universal access to handwashing facilities (water and 
soap) in health care facilities and homes;
universal access to clean and safe energy technologies in 
health care facilities and homes. 
These targets were selected because they are already being 
monitored through a variety of processes. Progress towards 
the above targets will be measured through national health 
information systems, Demographic and Health Surveys (DHS), 
Multiple Indicator Cluster Surveys (MICS), research efforts and/
or modelling of mortality and morbidity estimates. The United 
Nations Commission on Information and Accountability 
(CoIA) and the independent Expert Review Group (iERG) 
are expected to play roles (see section on monitoring and 
evaluation for more detail).
10
1 .  Pneumonia and diarrhoea – major killers of young children
The world has made substantial gains in child survival over 
the past two decades. However, progress has been uneven 
both across and within countries. Today, fewer children less 
than 5 years of age are dying – in 2011, there were 6.9 million 
child deaths, compared with 12 million in 1990 (4). Despite 
this advancement, major preventable diseases continue to kill 
young children.
Globally, pneumonia and diarrhoea are among the leading 
causes of child mortality (Figure 1). Together, these diseases 
account for 29% of all child deaths, causing the loss of more 
than 2 million young lives each year. In 2010, the number of 
child deaths from pneumonia and diarrhoea was almost equal 
to the number of child deaths from all other causes after the 
neonatal period - that is, nearly as many children died from 
pneumonia and diarrhoea as from acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome (AIDS), malaria, measles, meningitis, injuries and all 
other post-neonatal conditions combined. 
Figure 1.	Global distribution of deaths among children less 
than 5 years of age by cause, 2010
Pneumonia | 14%
Other
conditions | 16%
Birth
asphyxia | 9%
Neonatal
deaths
Preterm bith
complications | 14%
Pneumonia | 4%
Neonatal
sepsis | 6%
Others
conditions | 2%
Congenital
abnormalities | 3%
Neonatal tetanus | 1%
Diarrhoea | 1%
Diarrhoea | 10%
NCDs | 4%
Injuries | 5%
Malaria | 7%
HIV/AIDS | 2%
Measles | 1%
 
Thirty-five percent of deaths in children less than five years of age 
are associated with malnutrition.’
Sources: WHO Global Health Observatory (httt://www.who.int/gho/child_health/
en/index.html) and ‘Black R et al. Lancet, 2008, 371:243-260 (5, 6) 
Most child deaths from pneumonia and diarrhoea occur in the 
world’s poorest regions – with nearly 90% in sub-Saharan Africa 
and South Asia. Children who are poor, hungry and living in 
remote areas are most likely to be visited by these “forgotten 
killers”. The burden that pneumonia and diarrhoea place on 
families and health systems in low-resource countries further 
exacerbates existing inequalities. 
Despite this heavy loss of young life, and the simplicity and cost-
effectiveness of necessary interventions, relatively few global 
resources are dedicated to tackling pneumonia and diarrhoea. 
Public health investment in the prevention and control of 
these diseases is not commensurate with the magnitude of 
the problem (7). The situation described in Pneumonia: The 
forgotten killer (8) and Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying 
and what can be done (9) is beginning to change, but much 
work remains, as documented in Pneumonia and diarrhoea: 
Tackling the deadliest diseases for the world’s poorest children 
(10). 
The solutions to tackling pneumonia and diarrhoea do not 
require major advances in technology. Proven interventions 
exist. Children are dying because services are provided piece-
meal and those most at risk are not being reached. Many 
of the causes and solutions for childhood pneumonia and 
diarrhoea are inter-related, and thus, this plan proposes an 
innovative approach for integrating the planning, delivery 
and monitoring of health interventions for these two diseases. 
2 .  Pneumonia and diarrhoea and the Millennium Development Goals
At the Millennium Summit in 2000, the United Nations 
Member States committed to a number of global goals for 
2015, some of which overlap with efforts to reduce the burden 
of pneumonia and diarrhoea. These include:
•	 MDG 4 – to reduce the under-5 mortality rate by two thirds;
•	 MDG 7, Target 10 – to halve the proportion of people 
without sustainable access to safe drinking-water and basic 
sanitation. 
For all goals, the baseline was set at 1990.
Although substantial progress has been made, MDG 4 can 
only be achieved by an intensified effort to reduce pneumonia 
and diarrhoea deaths over the next two years. If global action 
is not accelerated and sustained over time, an estimated 
1.24 million children less than 5 years of age will die from 
pneumonia and 760 000 will continue to die from diarrhoea 
every year (11, 12). If the implementation of key interventions 
11
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
is accelerated, the number of child deaths from these causes 
will drop substantially every year. This means millions of young 
lives can be saved simply by providing proven interventions at 
levels already achieved for better-off households.
Progress has also been made toward achieving MDG 7. The 
WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme (JMP) for Water 
Supply and Sanitation, the formal process charged with 
monitoring MDG 7, reported that the 2015 target for safe 
drinking-water, namely to halve the proportion of people 
without sustainable access to safe drinking-water, was met 
by 2010. However, this coverage target does not address the 
safety or reliability of water supplies. 
3 .  Background and purpose of the action plan
In 2009, WHO, UNICEF and partners published two separate 
strategies for control of pneumonia and diarrhoea: a Global 
Action Plan for Prevention and Control of Pneumonia (GAPP) 
(13) and a diarrhoeal disease prevention and control strategy 
(Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying and what can be done) 
(9) (see Annex I for summaries). These documents spelled out 
the key interventions needed to combat these conditions, and 
many countries have begun to implement them.
Since these strategies were launched, it has been recognized 
that pneumonia and diarrhoea are most effectively addressed 
in a coordinated manner. They share the same determinants, 
and thus also share control strategies as well as delivery 
systems. Both are caused by multiple pathogens and no 
single intervention will manage either problem. Many 
countries are already addressing these two diseases jointly 
through intersectoral working groups, integrating protection, 
prevention and treatment. For example, Zambia has a Child 
Health Technical Working Group which covers pneumonia 
and diarrhoea, in addition to other issues. In many countries, 
control of these two diseases forms the core of primary health 
care (PHC). Addressing their prevention and management as 
integrated bundles helps to strengthen weak health systems. 
This action plan provides an integrated framework of key 
interventions to protect, prevent and treat pneumonia 
and diarrhoea in children less than five years of age. It 
offers suggestions of supporting activities to improve and 
accelerate the implementation of interventions of proven 
benefit.
The GAPPD does not present a change of direction in terms 
of what needs to be done. It simply identifies opportunities 
to better integrate activities as well as capture synergies 
and efficiencies. It proposes an integrated framework of 
interventions to control diarrhoea and pneumonia (described 
in section 5) and provides a range of supporting activities 
to improve and accelerate the implementation of these 
interventions (explained in section 8).
Audience: The GAPPD is intended primarily for national 
governments and their partners, and secondarily for global 
organizations, donor agencies and other actors working on 
pneumonia and diarrhoea. The GAPPD also recognizes that 
community-level groups and individuals will be critical for 
effective implementation of the strategy.
4 .  The GAPPD as part of the global effort to improve women’s and 
children’s health 
The GAPPD builds on and strengthens many initiatives aimed 
at improving child health up to 2015 and beyond, including:
•	 The Global Strategy for Women’s and Children’s Health 
(1) developed under the auspices of the United Nations 
Secretary General and launched in 2010. This strategy 
identifies the key areas where action is urgently required to 
enhance financing, strengthen policy and improve service 
delivery. Pneumonia and diarrhoea control are specifically 
mentioned in the Global Strategy’s framework (Figure 
2). Resources committed to this strategy can strengthen 
synergies between partners, help avoid duplication and 
facilitate more effective and efficient use of resources. The 
GAPPD complements this strategy by spelling out the 
pneumonia and diarrhoea issues more specifically.
•	 The United Nations Commission on Life-Saving Commodities 
for Women and Children (15) aims to strengthen marketing, 
distribution and monitoring of 13 underutilized or 
neglected commodities. Its recommendations focus on the 
improvement of markets and quality, the strengthening of 
national delivery and the integration of the private sector 
as well as the consumer, all of which have the potential for 
considerable impact on pneumonia and diarrhoea control. It 
includes oral rehydration salts (ORS), zinc and oral amoxicillin 
within its mandate, all critical commodities for the control of 
pneumonia and diarrhoea.
12
Figure 2.	Framework of Global Strategy for Women’s and Children’s Health
Ensuring skilled and
motivated health workers in the
right place at the right time, with
the necessary infrastructure, drugs,
equipment and regulations
Delivering high-quality services and packages of interventions in a continuum of care:
Access
Political leadership
and community
engagement and
mobilization across
diseases and social
determinants
Accountability at all 
levels for credible 
results 
Removing financial, social 
and cultural barriers to access, 
including providing free essential 
services for women and children
(where countries choose)
Health workers
Accountability
Leadership
Interventions
• Quality skilled care for women and newborns during and after pregnancy 
 and childbirth (routine as well as emergency care)
• Safe abortion services (where not prohibited by law)
• Comprehensive family planning
• Integrated care for HIV/AIDS (i.e., PMTCT), 
 
malaria and other services
• Improved child nutrition and prevention and treatment of major childhood 
  diseases, including diarrhoea and pneumonia
•	 Committing to Child Survival: A Promise Renewed (2), led 
by UNICEF and the United States Agency for International 
Development (USAID), is a call to action to end preventable 
child deaths. Its goals are to mobilize political leadership, 
achieve consensus on a global roadmap highlighting 
innovative and proven strategies to accelerate reductions 
in child mortality, and drive sustained collective action and 
mutual accountability. It will achieve these goals through 
evidence-based country plans, transparency and mutual 
accountability, and global communication and social 
mobilization.
•	 The 2012 Declaration on Scaling up Treatment of 
Diarrhea and Pneumonia (14) from donors, industry and 
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) calls on all high-
burden countries and the international community to 
provide the resources, political will and focused action 
needed for ending preventable childhood pneumonia and 
diarrhoea deaths.
•	 The World Health Assembly Resolution 63.24 (16), endorsed 
in 2010, encourages all countries to implement the actions 
outlined in the GAPP as a national priority. It calls for the 
establishment of evidence-based policies and national plans 
to control pneumonia, and asks for reports of progress on 
pneumonia control as part of the annual report on progress 
towards reaching the MDGs.
•	 International Decade for Action ‘Water for Life’ 2005-2015 
and Sustainable Sanitation: Five-Year-Drive to 2015 (17) 
were established by the United Nations General Assembly 
in resolutions adopted in 2005 and 2010, respectively. 
They state that water and sanitation are indispensable for 
human health and well-being and call upon Member States 
to redouble efforts to close the safe drinking-water and 
sanitation gaps (18).
•	 The United Nations Sustainable Energy for All initiative 
(SEFA) is a public-private effort led by the Secretary General 
working towards universal access to modern energy services 
by 2030. It addresses access to both electricity (in homes 
and communities, including health facilities) and energy 
services for cooking and heating. It aims to secure the 
investment, technology and other developments required 
to provide clean (pollution free) and safe household energy, 
and advocates for robust monitoring and evaluation.
•	 The United Nations CoIA (19) highlights the need for periodic 
large-scale population-based surveys as a complement to 
national health information. It is developing a system to 
track whether donations for women’s and children’s health 
are made on time, whether resources are spent wisely and 
transparently, and whether the desired results are achieved. 
An Independent Expert Review Group prepares a progress 
report and presents it to the United Nations Secretary 
General in September of each year. 
•	 The Global Vaccine Action Plan (GVAP) (20), endorsed by the 
World Health Assembly in 2012, calls for delivery of vaccines 
as part of the package of complementary interventions for 
control of diseases, particularly pneumonia and diarrhoea. 
•	 The Rio + 20 conference in 2012 (21) outcome document 
states that sustainable development can only be achieved 
in the absence of debilitating communicable and non-
communicable diseases, and where populations have 
physical, mental and social well-being. It commits to high 
coverage of effective interventions and to reducing child 
mortality. 
The GAPPD aligns with and builds on the above initiatives, 
and provides a roadmap for implementation.
13
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
5 .  The Protect, Prevent and Treat framework for pneumonia and 
diarrhoea interventions
The GAPPD envisions the various interventions for controlling 
pneumonia and diarrhoea in children less than five years of 
age as: 
•	 protecting children by establishing and promoting good 
health practices; 
•	 preventing children from becoming ill from pneumonia and 
diarrhoea by ensuring universal coverage of immunization, 
HIV prevention and healthy environments; 
•	 treating children who are ill from pneumonia and diarrhoea 
with appropriate treatment. 
The Protect, Prevent and Treat framework integrates proven 
effective interventions as shown in Figure 3.
These measures should be implemented as part of an 
integrated package of effective, feasible and affordable 
interventions for child survival, targeting the most vulnerable 
populations. When developing action plans, countries will 
need to select priority interventions based on local context. 
For instance, in settings with high mortality from pneumonia 
and diarrhoea, interventions that will reduce mortality most 
rapidly should be prioritized, alongside investments in long-
term, sustainable measures, such as reliable piped safe 
drinking-water and sanitation services. When selecting and 
implementing interventions, all relevant sectors, including 
water, environment and energy, need to be involved and 
interventions need to be planned and implemented in a 
coordinated manner. Establishing better linkages between 
existing programmes can lead to synergies and efficiencies 
that will maximize the benefits.
The proposed interventions are not new, but implementing 
them more effectively will require greater coordination 
and refinement. This plan brings together interventions 
presented in earlier frameworks and contains some novel 
approaches. It also identifies new opportunities, especially in 
the intersectoral areas of policy. It does not intend to supplant 
existing programmes and approaches, such as Integrated 
Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) or integrated 
community case management (iCCM), nor approaches that 
conceptualise along the continuum of care. 
As evidence evolves, this framework can incorporate new 
interventions and new ways of implementing. Some “new” 
strategies are already being implemented, including the use of 
community groups and vendors; the application of evidence-
based behaviour change techniques and social marketing 
approaches; and the use of mobile technologies to collect data, 
prioritize treatment and promote health behaviour change. 
Other novel strategies may include different approaches to 
overcoming financial barriers, through for example, conditional 
cash transfers, vouchers and social insurance initiatives for 
households, or through loan guarantees and fiscal strategies 
to encourage investment in infrastructure.
At the country level, many of the interventions require close 
collaboration between the Ministry of Health (MoH) and 
other sectors, especially the ministries responsible for water, 
education, energy and the environment. In many countries, the 
MoH has important responsibilities for water and sanitation, 
including training staff and CHWs to effectively promote safe 
drinking-water treatment, safe sanitation and handwashing 
with soap, in addition to ensuring that health facilities have 
appropriate water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) services 
(22). These actions will be further enhanced by promoting 
equity in access to services, progressing toward the elimination 
of poverty, protecting the quality of the environment and 
improving women’s status. 
Another way of looking at the relationship between 
interventions for pneumonia and diarrhoea is shown in 
Figure 4. The overlapping area illustrates that most of the 
required actions are common to both diseases.
Figure 3.	Protect, Prevent and Treat framework
PROTECT
Children by establishing good health practices from birth
• Exclusive breastfeeding for 6 months
• Adequate complementary feeding
• Vitamin A supplementation
TREAT
Children who are ill from pneumonia and diarrhoea with appropriate treatment
• Improved care seeking and referral
• Case management at the health facility and community level
• Supplies: Low-osmolarity ORS, zinc, antibiotics and oxygen
• Continued feeding (including breastfeeding)
PREVENT
Children becoming ill from pneumonia and diarrhoea
• Vaccines: pertussis, measles, Hib, PCV and rotavirus 
• Handwashing with soap
• Safe drinking-water and sanitation 
• Reduce household air pollution
• HIV prevention
• Cotrimoxazole prophylaxis for HIV-infected 
 and exposed children
Reduce
pneumonia and
diarrhoea
morbidity and 
mortality
14
Figure 4.	Complementarity of pneumonia and diarrhoea interventions
Pneumonia
Reduced household 
air pollution
Antibiotics
for pneumonia
Vaccination
(PCV, Hib, pertussis)
Vaccination : rotavirus
Los-osmolarity ORS, zinc
& continued feeding
Safe water
& improved sanitation
Diarrhoea
Protect
Treat
Breastfeeding
promotion & support
Adequate complementary 
feeding
Prevent
Measles
Vaccination
Handwashing
with soap
Prevention of HIV
Improved care seeking 
behaviour and referral
Improved case management 
at community and health 
facility levels
Continued feeding
Vitamin A
suplementation
Oxygen therapy 
(where indicated)
Source: Adapted PATH: Tackling the deadliest diseases for the world’s poorest children. 
Interventions that work
Over the past 20 years, research into specific pneumonia 
and diarrhoea interventions has shown that the following 
interventions and activities work: 
•	 Promotion of exclusive breastfeeding reduces diarrhoea 
and pneumonia (23).
•	 Use of vaccines against Streptococcus pneumoniae (Spn) 
and Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib), the two most 
common bacterial causes of childhood pneumonia, and 
against rotavirus, the most common cause of childhood 
diarrhoea deaths, substantially reduces the disease burden 
and deaths caused by these infectious agents, as evidenced 
by countries that have introduced these vaccines (24, 25). 
•	 Use of vaccines against measles and pertussis in national 
immunization programmes substantially reduces pneumonia 
illness and death in children (26, 27). 
•	 Use of simple, standardized guidelines for the identification 
and treatment of pneumonia and diarrhoea in the 
community, at first-level health facilities and at referral 
hospitals substantially reduces child deaths (26, 27).
•	 ORS, especially the low-osmolarity formula, is a proven, life-
saving tool in the treatment of children with diarrhoea. Use of 
zinc supplements with ORS to treat children with diarrhoea 
reduces deaths in children less than five years of age (29). 
•	 Innovative demand creation activities are important for 
achieving behaviour change and sustaining long-term 
preventive practices.
•	 WASH interventions, including access to and use of safe 
drinking-water and sanitation, as well as promotion of key 
hygiene practices, provide health, economic and social 
benefits (31).
•	 Reduction of household air pollution with improved stoves 
has been shown to reduce severe pneumonia. Safer and 
more efficient energy in the home prevents burns, saves 
time and fuel costs, and contributes to better development 
opportunities (32).
Table 1 lists selected interventions and demonstrates 
evidence for their impact. However, the observed health 
impact depends on coverage and correct, consistent and 
sustained use. Furthermore, such interventions require 
communication and social mobilization strategies that inform 
and motivate healthy actions and create demand for services 
and behaviours essential to pneumonia and diarrhoea 
prevention and control.
15
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Table 1.  Documented reductions in pneumonia and diarrhoea morbidity and mortality with selected interventions 
Interventions to Protect 
Exclusive breastfeeding for 6 months
23% reduction in pneumonia incidence (33); 10.5 times greater risk of death from diarrhoea 
and 15.1 times greater risk of death from pneumonia if not breastfed in first 6 months (34); 
not breastfeeding associated with 165% increase in diarrhoea incidence in 0-5 month-old 
infants (35); not exclusively breastfeeding resulted in excessive risk of diarrhoea incidence 
(RR 1.26 – 2.65), prevalence (RR 2.15 – 4.90), mortality (RR 2.28 – 10.52) and all-cause mortality 
(RR 1.48 – 14.40) in infants 0-5 months (36) 
Continued breastfeeding from  
6 – 23 months 
2.8 times greater risk of death from diarrhoea if not breastfed (34); not breastfeeding 
associated with 32% increased diarrhoea incidence in infants 6-23 months (35); not 
breastfeeding resulted in excessive risk of diarrhoea incidence (RR 1.32) in infants 6-11 
months and prevalence (RR 2.07), mortality (RR 2.18) and all-cause mortality (RR 3.69) in 
infants 6-23 months (36)
Adequate complementary feeding among 
children 6 – 23 months, including adequate 
micronutrient intake
6% reduction in all child deaths, including from pneumonia and diarrhoea (37)
Vitamin A supplementation
23% reduction in all-cause mortality (38)
Interventions to Prevent
Vaccination against measles, pertussis, PCV, 
Hib and rotavirus
Hib vaccine reduces radiologically confirmed pneumonia by 18% (39); 23 – 35% reduction 
in incidence of radiological pneumonia for PCV (33); reduction in very severe rotavirus 
infection by 74% (40); potential effectiveness of 30% for PCV in reduction of overall childhood 
pneumonia mortality (41)
Prevention of HIV in children
2% reduction in all child deaths (37)
Cotrimoxazole prophylaxis for HIV-infected 
children
33% reduction in AIDS deaths (42)
Handwashing with soap
31% diarrhoea risk reduction (43); 48% diarrhoea risk reduction (34) 
Improved sanitation
36% diarrhoea risk reduction (34)
Increased quantity of water
17% diarrhoea risk reduction (recognizing a minimum quantity of at least 25 litres per person 
per day is recommended) (43)
Household water treatment and safe 
storage (to ensure safe drinking-water)
31 – 52% diarrhoea risk reduction (greater reductions realized when used correctly and 
exclusively by vulnerable populations) (35, 44) 
Reduction in household air pollution (HAP) 
through lower emission stoves and/or clean fuels
Halving of HAP exposure with a chimney stove reduced severe pneumonia by 33% (45); other 
evidence indicates large exposure reductions may further reduce risk (46) 
Interventions to Treat
Health facility case management for very 
severe pneumonia cases and vulnerable 
groups such as newborns, HIV-infected and 
malnourished children
29 – 45% reduction in case fatality (33); 6% reduction in all child deaths (37); 90% reduction in 
neonatal deaths due to pneumonia with hospital-based case management (47)
Increasing access to appropriate 
care through community-based case 
management of pneumonia/diarrhoea 
(CCM)
CCM results in 70% reduction in pneumonia mortality (48); 35% reduction in child pneumonia 
mortality (48); CCM of diarrhoea with ORS and zinc reduced diarrhoeal deaths among under-
fives by 93% (49); 42-75% reduction in neonatal deaths due to pneumonia (47)
ORS
ORS reduces diarrhoea mortality by 69% with current coverage, or 93% if 100% coverage (49)
Zinc 
Zinc for the treatment of diarrhoea reduces diarrhoea mortality by 23% (50); 14 – 15% 
reduction in incidence of pneumonia or diarrhoea (33)
16
The gap: current coverage is too low
Unfortunately, coverage for relevant interventions has not 
yet reached the levels required for the desired impact (see 
Figure 5), with the exception of vitamin A supplementation, 
measles and diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis (DTP3) vaccination 
which reached higher coverage levels. Data available in 2012 
from the Countdown to 2015 for 75 countries (51) show that: 
•	 only 37% of infants less than 6 months of age are exclusively 
breastfed;
•	 about 83% of children received their third dose of DTP3, 
43% received a third dose of Hib and 84% received their first 
routine dose of a measles-containing vaccine (52);
•	 about 92% of children received two doses of Vitamin A (10);
•	 about 55% of caregivers reported seeking appropriate care 
for suspected pneumonia, and antibiotic treatment was 
given for about 39% of cases (10);
•	 33% of children received oral rehydration therapy and 
continued feeding for diarrhoea (10);
•	 40% of homes have improved sanitation facilities, and 
76% have improved drinking-water sources. 
Figure 5.	Coverage of interventions
0
20
40
60
80
100
39
75
83
84
43
60
63
89
35
31
Exclusive breastfeeding
Vitamin A supplementation
DTP3 immunization
Measles immunization
HiB3 immunization
Care seeking for pneumonia
Antibiotics for pneumonia
Diarrhoea treatment (ORS)
Improved sanitation facilities
Improved drinking-water
Source: UNICEF’s State of the World’s Children 2013 (forthcoming)
Other data show that almost 3 billion people still rely on 
inefficient, polluting solid fuels for cooking and heating, and 
that 1.3 billion have no access to electricity. 
6 .  An environment for change
Challenges and opportunities
In 2011-2012, WHO, UNICEF and other partners convened 
a series of workshops to promote coordinated approaches 
on pneumonia and diarrhoea control, involving over 400 
participants from 36 countries in Africa and Asia. The 
workshops were followed by interaction with countries to 
monitor the implementation of recommended actions. While 
the workshops and follow-up activities demonstrated a strong 
willingness among country participants to work together across 
programmes, several challenges were noted (see Box 1).
Despite the challenges cited, the countries also identified 
many opportunities (see Box 2).
The global context and environment in which the GAPPD will 
be applied is changing rapidly, as described below.
Box 1.  Challenges to scaling up pneumonia and diarrhoea actions identified by countries during the regional workshops
•	 Empowerment: In many cases, the authority to make 
the changes necessary to facilitate collaboration across 
programmes (for example, changing budgets and 
organizational structures) was largely beyond the control 
of the participants who attended the regional workshops.
•	 Lack of specific guidance: Many countries have child health 
policies, but they are not explicit with regard to the use 
of antibiotics by CHWs for the treatment of pneumonia, 
and in some cases, the use of zinc for diarrhoea treatment 
or artemisinin combination therapy for malaria treatment. 
Regulatory, legislative and administrative barriers to iCCM 
were also noted. 
•	 Supply issues: In some countries, vaccines, zinc and 
treatment for pneumonia and diarrhoea are unavailable 
in sufficient quantities or as appropriate formulations for 
children. 
•	 Sustaining vaccine coverage: While there has been good 
progress in introducing new vaccines, sustaining and 
increasing vaccine coverage for all vaccines remains an 
issue in some countries. 
•	 Surveillance: The quality of routine data collection to 
measure progress on pneumonia and diarrhoea control 
is often inadequate, and health information systems do 
not usually include community-level activities. As a result, 
community-level data are not available for decision-
making at higher levels.
•	 Monitoring and evaluation: Indicators and plans for 
monitoring and evaluation, and established mechanisms 
for supervision have yet to be agreed upon in several 
countries.
17
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Box 2.  Major opportunities identified by countries during pneumonia and diarrhoea regional workshops
•	 Political commitment: Strong political will to achieve 
MDGs from global, regional and national levels, and 
strong partnerships for child survival.
•	 Improved access: Accelerated expansion of primary 
health care facilities in a number of countries.
•	 New vaccines: Introduction of new vaccines (PCV, 
rotavirus). 
•	 Support for change: Favourable and conducive environ-
ment for policy dialogue and change. 
•	 Resources: Improved financing mechanisms by govern-
ments.
7 .  Focus on equity and universal health coverage
Pneumonia and diarrhoea deaths are not distributed evenly 
through the global population or within any one country. The 
highest death rates from these diseases are recorded in the 
least-resourced countries and in the poorest populations 
within those countries. Children of lower socioeconomic class 
or caste, minority ethnic groups and those living in isolated 
geographical areas suffer from cumulative inequities. These 
children are subject to higher prevalence rates of pneumonia 
and diarrhoea, and more difficult access to health services 
despite being in greater need of those services. Evidence 
suggests that children from families in the poorest wealth 
quintile are less likely to receive high impact interventions than 
those in the richest quintile (see Figure 6). 
These populations are also the least likely to have access to 
improved water and sanitation (53) or to have access to clean, 
safe household energy services (54). This situation demands 
strengthened efforts to reach disadvantaged populations and 
to achieve universal coverage of relevant interventions. Equity 
should be ensured by prioritizing interventions that reach 
children at the highest risk of death and severe morbidity from 
pneumonia and diarrhoea (10, 55), and should be incorporated 
into the planning for scale-up of interventions as well as the 
assessment of national progress (56). Several strategies show 
promise for improving coverage of effective interventions—
and, in some cases, health outcomes in children. Promising 
strategies include: expanding roles for lay and CHWs; shifting 
tasks, as appropriate, to lower-level workers; reducing 
financial barriers; increasing human-resource availability and 
geographical access; and engaging with the private sector to 
procure and deliver interventions and services (57).
Figure 6.	Coverage inequity by intervention
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Early initiation
of breastfeeding
DTP3
immunization
Measles
immunization
Vitamin A
supplementation
Oral rehydratation
therapy
Care seeking 
for pneumonia
Richest 20%
Poorest 20%
Median
Source: The Countdown to 2015 equity database
18
Humanitarian emergencies 
Pneumonia and diarrhoea are leading causes of death in 
children less than five years of age in emergencies and 
fragile, at-risk settings. Emergencies have been increasing 
in number and frequency, putting more communities at 
risk and challenging the response capacity of national and 
international actors (59). These situations disrupt or destroy 
health systems and services, ultimately affecting their ability 
to reach children with interventions. Increasing capacity 
to protect, prevent and treat common illnesses such as 
pneumonia and diarrhoea, and to prevent outbreaks of these 
diseases is critical to improving child survival in humanitarian 
emergencies. Vaccination, safe drinking-water, sanitation and 
hygiene are usually immediate priorities (60). Provision of 
services during disaster relief provides opportunities to make 
more sustainable improvements in access to water, sanitation, 
energy and health facilities. 
Urbanization
Hundreds of millions of children in urban areas are being 
raised in overcrowded and unhygienic housing structures and 
communities (61). Such conditions facilitate the transmission 
of disease, notably pneumonia and diarrhoea, and drive up 
child mortality. While urban areas are home to the majority 
of modern health facilities, many urban children are deprived 
of even rudimentary services. Lower levels of immunization 
and/or pockets of under-vaccinated children (including those 
in higher coverage areas) lead to more frequent outbreaks 
of vaccine-preventable diseases in communities that are 
already more vulnerable. These areas are often at high risk for 
disasters. Without sufficient access to safe drinking-water or 
an adequate water supply for basic hygiene, children’s health 
suffers. Use of polluting household fuels remains common in 
urban areas and results in exposure which compounds that 
from the already high levels of urban air pollution in many 
developing countries. It also makes a significant contribution 
to ambient air pollution (62). 
An integrated approach to interventions and cross-
sectoral collaboration
Traditionally, activities aimed at improving child health have 
been run as vertical programmes, each in their own “silo” 
with separate staff, budgets, planning, training, supervision, 
etc. While in some cases, this focused approach can lead to 
significant progress, programmes run in this way often use 
more resources, while not necessarily delivering quality child 
health care. Moving away from such “siloed” approaches, 
toward more coordinated and collaborative efforts will 
allow for cost savings while also increasing the impact of 
interventions. Such efforts should not only involve the health 
sector, but also promote better linkages with other sectors. 
Understanding risks and context, and considering realistic 
and achievable convergent points between interventions to 
enable quality and integrity for each is vital. For example, 
consider “integrated logistics”, “integrated service delivery”, 
and/or “integrated outreach”.
Efforts to comprehensively reduce childhood deaths associated 
with pneumonia and diarrhoea have shown that integrated 
delivery of interventions is possible and advantageous. For 
example, in Malawi, combining the provision of hygiene kits 
with antenatal care (ANC) resulted in a nearly 30-fold increase 
in household water treatment practices 3 years after the 
intervention (63). It also achieved a 15% increase in health 
facility deliveries and postnatal checkups (64), both indicators 
of improved child and maternal health (see Boxes 3 and 4 for 
further examples of cross-sectoral collaboration.).
Box 3.  Sanitation and household water treatment as a focus point for cross-sectoral collaboration
Sanitation is often considered ‘another sector’, but in many 
countries it falls under the remit of the MoH. In several 
countries, the MoH is involved in cross-sectoral collaboration 
to improve water and sanitation. For example:
Mali: In Mali, the MoH released a strategic plan (2011-2015) 
that specifically focuses on diarrhoeal disease prevention 
and control through hygiene promotion. The plan outlines 
responsibilities across different stakeholders and ministries. 
The MoH oversees IMCI, which includes WASH messages. 
Community-led total sanitation is being scaled up, led by the 
Ministry of Environment and Sanitation but in collaboration 
with the MoH.
 
Ethiopia: Ethiopia has a Memorandum of Understanding 
between the MoH, Ministry of Water and Energy and the 
Ministry of Education to increase the coordination of WASH 
services, especially sanitation and water quality surveillance. 
The National Hygiene and Sanitation Task Force coordinates 
WASH efforts and has developed a national handwashing 
strategy with a campaign to target school children. They 
also have a plan to scale up household water treatment to 
ensure those most at risk of diarrhoeal disease have access 
to safe drinking-water. Over 35 000 health extension workers 
(HEWs) are involved in this effort, in addition to local leaders 
and communities. 
Zambia: The MoH oversees IMCI. Key messages governing 
community-based activities include disposal of faeces and 
handwashing. 
Source: Adapted from: Tearfund/PATH, 2012. Diarrhoea dialogues: from 
policies to progress. http://defeatdd.org/media/journalists/press-releases/
diarrhoea-dialogues#/media/journalists/press-releases/diarrhoea-dialogues
19
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Box 4.  Western Kenya: Integrating household water treatment and handwashing education with maternal and child health
This initiative aimed to integrate the distribution of 
incentive kits with maternal health services in order to 
increase attendance rates at ANC, improve rates of health 
facility deliveries, increase use of WaterGuard to treat 
water, and improve handwashing techniques. The intended 
beneficiaries were 2000 pregnant women residing in Nyanza 
Province. The integrated effort involved a number of national 
and international partners, including the Kenyan Ministry of 
Public Health, the United States Centers for Disease Control 
and WHO.
The incentives provided included a hygiene kit (chlorine for 
water treatment and soap) which was given during ANC visits 
1 and 3, a nutrition kit (fortified flour) given during ANC visits 
2 and 3, and a delivery kit (bucket with lid and tap, chlorine 
and coagulant/flocculant sachets for water treatment, soap, 
baby blanket, razor blade, and hospital and surgical gloves) 
given for health facility deliveries.
At the same time, clinic and service improvements were 
made, including 1) training of nurses in management of 
obstetric emergencies, neonatal resuscitation, rapid syphilis 
testing and quality control, water treatment and hygiene and 
patient-centered care, and 2) provision of handwashing and 
drinking-water stations as well as resuscitation equipment. 
Positive outcomes of this approach included: 
•	 substantial increases in fourth antenatal visit (77% 
compared to 57% at baseline), health facility deliveries 
(74% compared to 43% at baseline), postnatal checkups 
(61% compared to 37% at baseline) and counselling in 
family planning; 
•	 increased reporting of, and observed drinking-water 
treatment (54% compared to 39% at baseline);
•	 increased ability to demonstrate correct handwashing 
techniques (68% compared to 54% at baseline).
This approach is now being applied throughout Nyanza 
Province. Other interventions prioritized by the Government 
of Kenya, such as stethoscopes, blood pressure cuffs, scales, 
and anaemia testing and treatment may be added.
Source: Adapted from: O’Connor, K. 2012. Integration of household water 
treatment and handwashing education with maternal health services in Rural 
Western Kenya: Preliminary Report.
Action needed at country level 
National governments must lead in developing, implementing, 
and financing the strategies and actions needed for a reduction 
in pneumonia and diarrhoea morbidity and mortality. This 
should be done within existing national child health or child 
survival strategies. The following general actions (see summary 
in Box 5) should help countries to accelerate implementation 
of pneumonia and diarrhoea interventions. Individuals or small 
groups already working in the area within the country will need 
to take charge of organizing progress towards the actions 
described in more detail in this section, and will need to obtain 
the necessary authorization to proceed. Some of the work/
targets described here may have been accomplished already; 
for example, a plan may already have been developed. In this 
context, it is more important for countries to move forward 
with implementation, rather than to repeat planning work that 
has already been done. 
Examples of actions for implementing some of the key 
interventions (water, sanitation and hygiene, vaccination, case 
management, breastfeeding, emergencies and elimination of 
paediatric HIV) are detailed in Annex 2. 
For more specific planning, national or sub-national 
authorities are advised to use the situation analysis guide 
and planning framework developed from the country and 
regional workshops on pneumonia and diarrhoea in 2011 
and 2012 (Annex 3). This guide can help to identify the 
key gaps and opportunities to scaling up interventions in a 
coordinated way, and provide a formalized mechanism for 
different programmes to discuss key issues together.
20
Box 5.  List of key actions needed to implement/scale up coordinated country work on pneumonia and diarrhoea 
protection, prevention and treatment
•	 Develop a clear country-level strategy and work plan, with 
key responsibilities assigned
generate political will;
develop/update a situation analysis for pneumonia 
and diarrhoea;
prioritize interventions; 
develop/update a costed plan for accelerated action;
identify areas of harmonization and collaboration 
between programmes and sectors, including the 
private sector, academia and civil society;
use data to identify groups at greater risk or missed 
by services and develop targeted approaches to reach 
them;
develop a set of common indicators for tracking 
progress.
•	 Coordinate implementation of interventions
designate a national working group for pneumonia 
and diarrhoea prevention and control or review 
membership of an appropriate existing group;
mobilize resources;
apply lessons from other integrated disease prevention 
and control efforts;
track execution and progress;
take and/or assign accountability for action.
•	 Engage and embed critical partners in the overall work 
plan/approach
involve other programmes and sectors;
involve the private sector and NGOs;
engage the United Nations agencies and development 
partners.
•	 Other actions
promote innovations, especially for overcoming 
barriers to service delivery;
generate demand and ensure supply; 
focus on implementation research and identify optimal 
modes of delivery of existing interventions in order to 
reach those most in need.
Develop a clear country-level strategy and workplan, with 
key responsibilities assigned
•	 Generate political will 
Advocacy using available global and national information 
should be carried out at all levels in order to persuade policy- 
and decision-makers, including those who make resource 
allocation decisions, to commit to reducing child deaths from 
pneumonia and diarrhoea. The interest and willingness of 
high-level political figures to dedicate national resources to 
pneumonia and diarrhoea will be critical for ensuring success. 
Relevant, evidence-informed material (e.g. the GAPPD, 
Pneumonia and diarrhoea: Tackling the deadliest diseases 
for the world’s poorest children (10), etc.), and if available, 
a national situation analysis should be provided to policy- 
and decision-makers. With this information, policy-makers 
can make informed decisions and can identify the actions 
required to overcome country- or region-specific barriers. 
Parliamentarians and parliamentary committees may be 
targets of advocacy, and may themselves become advocates 
for increasing budgets. Political will can also be generated by 
publicizing credible estimates of the local economic costs of 
pneumonia and diarrhoea, and by promoting national and 
subnational prevention campaigns via media organizations 
and social communication.
At the same time, other significant national and local 
stakeholders, such as NGOs and potential donors, need to 
be identified for similar advocacy efforts. Potential champions 
who can help to generate enthusiasm should be sought.
 
•	 Develop/update a situation analysis for pneumonia and 
diarrhoea
The situation analysis should review current population 
intervention coverage and levels of support available. It 
should also identify current barriers to accessing and scaling 
up interventions, and suggest ways to overcome them. It may 
include an assessment of the vulnerabilities, hazards and/
or capacities at various levels and across interventions that 
may put communities at risk for emergencies or outbreaks. 
The analysis should identify policy issues that need to be 
addressed, such as whether or not trained CHWs are permitted 
to provide antibiotics for pneumonia at the community level. 
The analysis should also include formative research on key 
behaviours that are essential to the prevention of diarrhoeal 
disease (e.g. handwashing with soap, exclusive breastfeeding, 
use of ORS, etc.), as well as formative research on the enabling 
environment (e.g. structures, hardware and commodities 
necessary to facilitate the desired behaviours). This process 
enables identification of appropriate interventions that can be 
scaled up immediately, versus those that will take longer or 
may need additional support to be put in place. 
Most of the information needed for such a situation analysis 
is likely already available in regional and national child 
survival strategies and plans. Other documents describing 
interventions (e.g. country immunization plans, WASH 
documents, etc.) should also contain this information. The 
information may simply need to be updated, compiled and 
acted upon. If such data are not available, a national working 
group should gather the necessary additional information. 
Countries that have already participated in this process can 
use this opportunity to review and update their work.
21
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
•	 Prioritize/implement a package of interventions cross-linked 
to current maternal and child health plans
Policy-makers and planners should use the situation analysis 
to develop and implement a package of interventions that 
address key protective, preventive and treatment factors. 
This includes making decisions regarding the introduction of 
relevant new vaccines based on the burden of disease and 
the key groups affected. Countries will need to assess which 
interventions should receive special focus, and what policy 
changes might be required to accelerate progress. They will 
also need to decide which geographic or population groups 
should receive particular attention in order to enhance equity. 
Once these decisions are made, they will have to communicate 
these to the various programmes, sectors and levels to ensure 
that resources are appropriately allocated.
•	 Develop/update a costed multi-year plan for accelerated 
action
Many countries already have an action plan that includes 
diarrhoea and pneumonia. For example, many of the country 
representatives who attended the country or regional 
workshops developed or updated their action plans at that 
time (see Annex 3 for a summary of the process). These plans 
should now be reviewed and updated, ensuring that costs are 
estimated and national and subnational progress milestones 
are set. Milestones and costing should be set for multi-year, in 
addition to annual programming. Costed national health plans 
should emphasize service integration across programmes 
for reproductive, maternal, neonatal and child health. They 
should also include environmental interventions with a focus 
on pneumonia and diarrhoea control. Plans made by other 
relevant interventional programmes should be consulted 
to ensure coordinated budgets, cost-sharing, and resource 
mobilization.
•	 Identify areas of harmonization and collaboration between 
programmes and sectors 
Programmes and sectors work separately for a variety of 
reasons, and so, suddenly attempting to change this way of 
working may represent a threat. One way to begin harmonizing 
efforts is to look at governance structures as well as multi-
agency/department partnerships and seek opportunities for 
coordination, or even attempt to modify existing structures. 
National, regional and district levels should all be considered.
Establishing mechanisms, such as a government-led multi-
agency working group, to facilitate the exchange of information 
and experiences will help make coordination a norm. 
Documenting and disseminating best practices and lessons 
learned when working between programmes/sectors is also 
helpful. Key cross-cutting areas where greater collaboration 
is likely to be beneficial include policy development, planning, 
social mobilization and advocacy, development of guidelines 
and tools, supply chain, supervision, training, and monitoring 
and evaluation. 
 
Efforts in Cameroon and Kenya to jointly address diarrhoea and 
pneumonia through household water treatment and improved 
cookstoves led to gains in joint messaging and distribution 
(and potentially uptake) (65). See Box 6 for another example 
of improved coordination.
Box 6.  Cambodia: Tackling pneumonia and diarrhoea through programme and policy coordination
Childhood pneumonia and diarrhoea account for 38% 
of under-five deaths in Cambodia. Although attention to 
these two diseases has helped reduce this toll each year, 
poor, rural communities continue to lose children to these 
diseases. To address this disparity, PATH, in collaboration 
with the Cambodia MoH, WHO, UNICEF and other NGOs, 
implemented the Enhanced Diarrheal Disease (EDD) Initiative 
in Cambodia from 2011 to 2012. It focused on programme 
and policy integration to overcome barriers to increased 
diarrhoea and pneumonia control. The programme, piloted 
in one district, consisted of a two-pronged approach to build 
political will and to strengthen policies related to diarrhoea 
and pneumonia, and then to implement a new integrated 
package of services within communities. 
The integrated approach resulted in coordinated policies, 
improved access to care at the community level, and the 
implementation of integrated training for Village Health 
Volunteers (VHV). PATH, alongside key partners, successfully 
advocated for ORS and zinc to be deregulated and made 
available at the community level. To improve community-
level service delivery, PATH also brought the MoH and 
partners together to update health worker training. A number 
of key lessons have been learned from the introduction and 
initiation of the programme:
•	 National policy must be translated into action at the 
community level to be effective.
•	 Coordinated 
and 
strategic 
working 
relationships 
between ministries, technical agencies, NGOs, and local 
organizations ensure support at all levels.
•	 Comprehensive 
integration 
improves 
programming 
effectiveness and broadens the scope of reach.
•	 Capacity building is an ongoing process; trained VHVs 
need monitoring, supervision, and opportunities for 
continued learning.
•	 Health systems strengthening must be holistic, working 
to overcome financial, governmental, operational and 
capacity constraints.
•	 Changing provider behaviour at all levels is integral to 
improving access to ORS and zinc.
Source: Adapted from http://www.path.org/publications/files/ER_app_edd_
cambodia_cs.pdf.
22
Coordinate planning and implementation of interventions
•	 Designate a national working group or review membership 
of an appropriate existing group for pneumonia and 
diarrhoea control
A national-level coordinating body is needed to take 
responsibility 
for 
formulating 
and 
coordinating 
the 
implementation of an action plan. In countries with high 
pneumonia and diarrhoea mortality, it may be necessary to 
form a new group. In other countries, such a group will be 
part of an existing national task force or committee related to 
child survival, including IMCI, immunization, nutrition, health 
systems, essential drugs, HIV, water, sanitation and hygiene, 
air quality and other relevant programmes such as those 
addressing emergencies or outbreaks. Whatever the situation, 
there should be a body with clear responsibility for controlling 
pneumonia and diarrhoea. This group should include the 
relevant managers from various ministries (e.g. ministries of 
health, water, environment, energy and/or education), as well 
as appropriate representatives from WHO, UNICEF, other 
relevant United Nations agencies, NGOs, professional bodies, 
the private sector and academia. Terms of reference for the 
group should indicate the membership, tasks, expected 
outputs and the frequency of meetings (see example in 
Annex 4). 
•	 Develop a resource mobilization plan and mobilize resources
Mobilizing resources is an important role of the national 
working group or similar body. Other tasks described above, 
namely generating political will and involving a wide range of 
stakeholders, should help direct national resources to priority 
interventions and raise funds from various sources. Stakeholders 
may also help by realigning their activities to better reach 
poorly-served populations. Accurately costed multi-year and 
annual action plans that clearly link strategies with anticipated 
outcomes (see section above) will enhance efforts to mobilize 
resources. The national working group should encourage 
donors to commit to resourcing the plans through on-budget 
commitments (preferably multi-year) in accordance with the 
principles of aid effectiveness. A resource mobilization plan 
should include inputs (e.g. transport, hardware, supply chain, 
etc.) from the private sector, as appropriate.
•	 Increase coverage for key interventions
Action needs to be taken on the critical areas where the evidence 
for impact on child mortality is the strongest. These are: 
vaccination; 
case management;
breastfeeding;
access to safe drinking-water, sanitation and handwash-
ing facilities. 
There are a number of strategies that can be applied to 
increase coverage of key interventions which include increasing 
the roles of community health workers through task shifting 
(see Box 7), engaging the private sector, risk assessment to 
identify and target fragile and at-risk populations, and social 
mobilization and community engagement to promote better 
care seeking.
Box 7.  Community health workers and WASH messages
Since 88% of cases of diarrhoea are due to problems with 
WASH, it is vital that good sanitation and hygiene practices, 
such as handwashing with soap, are promoted and 
practised. However, behaviour change is a complex process 
and long-term community support is required to achieve it. 
CHWs are ideally placed to both deliver health messages 
and to provide long-term support. Integrating WASH 
messages into existing health programmes will enable more 
households to be reached with these crucial sanitation and 
hygiene messages. MoH support is essential, along with 
technical and financial assistance to support community-
level staff.
In Ethiopia, the Health Extension Programme has integrated 
WASH into health worker activities. The promotion of 
WASH messages, delivered by HEWs and Community 
Health Promoters (CHPs), has been associated with a 
substantial reduction in the incidence of diarrhoea in two 
areas studied. HEWs and CHPs have also involved local and 
religious leaders in the promotion and implementation of 
WASH messages. Use of HEWs and CHPs as role models to 
demonstrate good sanitation and hygiene practices in their 
own homes was highlighted.
Effective change will require a shift of emphasis from message 
delivery to support for long-term behaviour change. More 
household visits by CHWs would facilitate this shift.
 
Strategies that contain behaviour change elements, such 
as IMCI and community-led total sanitation, should be 
coordinated. A study into diarrhoea control policies in Mali, 
Ethiopia and Zambia concluded that without a coordinating 
mechanism in place, it is difficult to ascertain whether such 
strategies are complementary and mutually reinforcing. 
Based on the study findings, it is also unclear whether these 
strategies support communities as they transition to any 
long-term behaviour change.
Source: Adapted from: Gill S, Hayes J, Coates S. Diarrhoea dialogues: from 
policies to progress, A call for urgent action to prevent the biggest killer of 
children in sub-Saharan Africa. Teddington UK and Washington DC, USA, Tear 
Fund, PATH, 2012. Available at: http://tilz.tearfund.org/webdocs/Tilz/Research/
DiarrhoeaDialoguesFinal2012Lowres.pdf, accessed 1 February 2013. 
23
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
The national working group should develop a concrete plan 
applying appropriate strategies to increase key intervention 
coverage in an equitable manner. This plan should ensure that 
access to interventions is improved in areas or populations 
that are currently the most under-served (such as rural areas 
without access to safe water and sanitation, urban slums or 
those in fragile and emergency risk settings). A recent review 
of changes in national coverage for infant health found that 
the countries making faster gains in coverage were those able 
to increase coverage among the poorest at a faster rate than 
among the better-off (56).
Policy issues will need to be resolved in order to remove 
barriers to scaling up. These include empowering community-
level workers to manage pneumonia with antibiotics as well as 
use zinc in diarrhoea case management; improving outreach 
and service linkages with communities to raise immunization 
coverage; and considering use of new vaccine delivery devices 
or use of more heat- stable vaccines.
Health systems strengthening initiatives may highlight other 
policy issues hindering implementation and help to resolve 
them. Key building blocks of health system strengthening 
include health workers, health financing, facilities and drugs, 
information systems and planning. 
•	 Apply lessons from other integrated disease prevention and 
control efforts
Many countries have gained considerable experience from 
using integrated approaches to implement interventions 
such as IMCI. Large-scale cholera outbreaks, such as those in 
Nepal and the United Republic of Tanzania, have helped to 
institutionalize collaborative groupings and change policies 
and programmes to apply protection, prevention and treatment 
interventions. Lessons learned from these experiences can be 
applied to pneumonia and diarrhoea control.
•	 Track execution and progress
A national working group should measure progress on 
pneumonia and diarrhoea control. Key indicators should be 
incorporated into district and national surveillance systems, 
and data collection should be strengthened to lessen reliance 
on survey data. Data collected by CHWs should also be 
incorporated into this system. There should be a process in 
place that facilitates the use of such information to modify 
the national plan; to adapt advocacy, communications and 
resource mobilization efforts; and to engage with relevant 
WASH and clean air actors. The national pneumonia and 
diarrhoea plan should contain locally-appropriate goals and 
targets. It should also include indicators for measuring whether 
the targets are being reached, as well as strategies for making 
needed data available. 
 
Available data sources: Epidemiological and programmatic 
data is normally collected through the national health 
information system and through periodic surveys, such as the 
DHS and the MICS. The MICS also collects information on 
environmental risks to health as well as disease surveillance 
and early warning systems for epidemic-prone diseases (e.g. 
the Integrated Disease Surveillance and Response system in 
Africa). Data on household energy use are compiled, updated 
and reported annually by WHO. In addition, the JMP provides 
comprehensive reports every two years on access to water and 
sanitation supplies with sub-analyses on access according to 
location (rural/urban) and wealth quintile. Opportunities exist 
for linking data collection with other efforts, such as the United 
Nations CoIA.
•	 Take and/or assign accountability for action
Countries are accountable, to both their own populations and 
the global community, for reducing the burden of pneumonia 
and diarrhoea. Accountability ensures that the responsible 
party recognizes that there is an issue, and that all partners 
deliver on their commitment(s). It demonstrates how actions 
and investment translate into tangible results and better long-
term outcomes, and indicates what works, what needs to be 
improved and what requires more attention. 
It comprises three main components: 
monitoring involves finding out what is happening 
where, and to whom;
review involves assessing whether or not commitments 
have been kept;
remedial action involves making recommendations 
to stakeholders on how to address areas in need of 
improvement identified in the review process.
An accountability framework defines the methodology and 
source of data for indicators, identifies which stakeholders will 
be responsible for what actions and articulates the process 
and responsibilities for monitoring and evaluating progress. 
As an example, the draft GVAP (16) lays the groundwork for 
further development and implementation of an accountability 
framework at country, regional and global levels.
Accountability also comes in other forms at other levels. 
Civil society groups as well as community and faith-based 
organizations can support citizens and communities in 
improving their health and holding governments accountable. 
Families and communities also have a role in local-level 
accountability, and local-level mechanisms to empower these 
groups to fill this role should be used or created. 
There is also increased attention to this issue at the global 
level. Information on core indicators will be reported annually 
until 2015 by the Countdown to 2015, a supra-institutional 
initiative that monitors coverage of key interventions as a 
proxy measure to mortality reduction. The United Nations 
CoIA has given a major impetus to the need for periodic large-
scale population-based surveys as a complement to national 
health information.
Engage and embed critical partners in the overall 
workplan/approach
•	 Involve other programmes and sectors 
Many health programmes have a role in pneumonia and 
diarrhoea control. For example, nutrition programmes promote 
24
breastfeeding and hygiene programmes promote practices 
to prevent diarrhoea. Task forces set up to manage cholera 
are putting in measures to prevent, prepare and respond 
to cholera. The national working group will work with these 
programmes, and if not already included, representatives from 
these programmes may wish to join the working group. In 
addition, the involvement of relevant non-health programmes 
(such as education for public health information; environment 
for housing conditions, energy access and water supply; public 
transportation for access to care) is encouraged in order to 
achieve better coordination and collaboration (see Box 8 for 
an example of supply chain integration, Box 9 for an example 
of integration between pneumonia and diarrhoea activities 
and those on clean energy access and Box 10 for an example 
of integration between household water and air quality).
Box 8.  Health commodities supply chain integration
Parallel systems of supply delivery lead to inefficiencies, 
through fragmented management of health commodities 
and through storage and distribution problems such as 
wastage and stock-outs. This situation is caused in part by the 
increasing complexity of managing supplies. While there is a 
push for thermo-stability of some vaccines, pharmaceuticals 
are becoming increasingly more temperature sensitive.
Optimize projects in Senegal, Tunisia and Vietnam are 
attempting to understand the feasibility and benefits of an 
integrated health commodity supply chain with vaccines, 
and to analyse both physical and management integration.
A supply chain may be integrated vertically, fully or through 
segmentation, that is, organizing the supply chain into 
segments that respond to either customer needs or 
product requirements. In Senegal, there is full integration 
throughout the entire supply chain, from national to local 
level. A “moving warehouse” (topping-up model) is used. 
In Tunisia, there is segmented integration from national to 
subnational level for all temperature-sensitive products, but 
full integration from regional to local level (for all products 
for government-run programmes). Planned deliveries are 
based on convenient transportation circuits and efficient 
route planning (including supervision and service delivery).
Source: Adapted from http://www.who.int/immunization_delivery/optimize/
background/en/index1.html, accessed 20 September 2012.
Box 9.  Opportunities to integrate GAPPD with global initiatives on achieving universal access to clean 
and safe household energy
Globally, nearly 3 billion people still use inefficient and 
highly polluting solid fuels and simple stoves for cooking 
and heating, while 1.3 billion lack access to electricity. 
Recognition of the implications of this energy poverty on 
health, economic development and the climate (including 
climate change) has led to the United Nations’ ambitious 
SEFA initiative, launched in 2012. With targets for universal 
access by 2030 to electricity and modern household energy 
systems for cooking and heating, this initiative is now a 
focus for many other international programmes and country 
actions on improving access to clean, safe household energy. 
One such example is the United Nations Foundation’s (UNF) 
Alliance for Clean Cookstoves, which was established in 2010 
to harness the resources and innovation of the public and 
private sectors. Specific activities, resources and support that 
can contribute to meeting the GAPPD objectives include:
WHO Household energy database 
This database holds nationally representative data on 
fuel types used for cooking derived from 586 surveys for 
155 countries. It includes 97% of all low- and middle-income 
countries and covers the period from 1974 to the present. 
Regularly updated and now being expanded to include data 
on heating and lighting, it has served as the basis for the 
SEFA baseline report (in preparation) and the calculation of 
disease burden, among other purposes. It can also make an 
important contribution to national situation assessment and 
monitoring. 
New WHO Indoor air quality guidelines for household 
fuel combustion
Due for publication during 2013, these guidelines will provide 
key information for decision-making on interventions for 
reducing HAP and preventing associated diseases, including 
pneumonia, and will also contain evidence and general 
guidance for implementation.
 
International standards for cookstoves
These standards were published for the first time in 2012. 
Based on an international workshop agreement, the multi-
tiered standards cover emission rates as well as rates for 
estimating indoor air quality, fuel efficiency and safety, 
and are being backed up by investment in regional testing 
centres. 
Monitoring and evaluation strategy
WHO is working with the World Bank and other SEFA 
partners to develop a multi-tiered monitoring framework. 
This will serve as a basis for setting targets and monitoring 
progress in access to modern energy for households and 
community services, pollutant emission levels and electricity 
supply. The proposed framework will be tested and refined, 
including the development of survey questions for DHS, 
MICS, etc., with a view to implementation within two to 
three years.
Source: SEFA http://www.sustainableenergyforall.org/ ; http://www.sustainableenergyforall.org/tracking-progress
25
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Box 10.  Integrating interventions for household water and air quality in Rwanda
About two fifths of the world’s population still relies on 
solid fuels for their everyday cooking and heating needs, 
most of which is biomass (wood, crop wastes and animal 
dung).  The great majority of these households are in 
developing countries, and reliance on solid fuels is closely 
linked to poverty. The use of biomass for cooking and water 
treatment (by boilling) in simple, poorly-vented stoves leads 
to high levels of harmful indoor air emissions, contributes to 
deforestation in some settings, and imposes an unnecessary 
burden on the public health and economic development of 
the vulnerable populations of these countries.
WHO has recently begun working with the Government of 
Rwanda and a range of stakeholders to address this issue. 
A key partner is DelAgua Health & Development Programs, 
which plan to distribute point-of-use water treatment 
as well as more efficient cookstoves to approximately 3 
million residents, covering all 30 districts of Rwanda and 
targeting the poorest 30% of the country. Households that 
fall into these categories are defined on a village level by 
the communities themselves. They are often characterized 
as lacking land, their own home or possessions. These 
households 
already 
receive 
direct 
assistance 
from 
community and national government activities, including 
health insurance.
The DelAgua Health Rwanda programme will provide water 
filters and new biomass cookstoves to these households 
as part of a public health campaign. The project is being 
carried out in partnership with the Rwanda MoH and 
the Environmental Management Authority, and is being 
developed by Manna Energy Limited, a social enterprise 
that pioneered carbon financed water treatment in Rwanda.
The technology distributions will include a household 
water treatment system that addresses microbiological 
contamination and a cookstove designed to reduce 
fuel use and HAP. Neither system requires electricity. 
The water treatment system will comply with the United 
States Environmental Protection Agency Guide Standard 
and Protocol for Testing Microbiological Water Purifiers, 
providing treated water that is as good as, or better than, 
boiling for reducing microbiological contamination. Plans 
are underway to evaluate the new stoves, including their 
impacts on HAP and fuel use, and in due course, on health 
outcomes.
Source: Adapted from http://www.delaguahealth.com/program/.
•	 Involve the private sector, NGOs and civil society
Too often planning for health interventions, such as those 
involving pneumonia and diarrhoea control, only consider 
implementation by the public sector. This may be the case 
even where private practitioners and drug sellers account 
for a greater share of health care than the public sector. The 
appropriate involvement of associations of doctors, nurses, 
pharmacists, drug sellers, traditional healers, manufacturers 
of water treatment products and sanitation hardware, and 
community groups in the planning and implementation 
of pneumonia and diarrhoea actions can achieve greater 
population coverage. Private sector involvement in non-
health interventions is required for technology and market 
development, clean energy supply, finance, etc. 
•	 Engage the United Nations agencies and donors 
The national working/action group should “map” relevant 
agencies and other possible donors at the country level to 
see how existing resources can be best used, and, where 
possible, how additional resources can be mobilized. WHO 
and UNICEF provide technical support in many countries, 
through for example, the provision of guidelines and tools for 
conducting a situation analysis and developing a pneumonia 
and diarrhoea action plan. They also often provide support for 
monitoring progress. Agencies involved in CCM activities for 
malaria are often a good source of support for iCCM. In fact, 
rapid diagnostic tests used in iCCM are an important tool for 
ruling out malaria and knowing when pneumonia treatment is 
necessary. 
Other recommended actions
•	 Be open to innovations 
Planners can integrate proven innovations to eliminate barriers 
to health and produce better outcomes. These approaches 
may be applied to all activities: leadership and management, 
financing (including incentives to achieve better performance 
and results), tools and interventions, service delivery, and 
monitoring and evaluation. Innovation can increase efficiency 
and impact. For example, mobile phone technology enables 
broad and nearly instant dissemination of information and 
reporting back of health data (see Boxes 11 and 12). Use of 
e-learning tools increases the number of training options at 
lower cost and thus coverage with trained health workers. New 
vaccines aimed at reducing pneumonia and diarrhoea can 
be integrated into existing immunization programmes while 
innovative vaccine delivery devices can improve acceptability 
of immunization. Task-shifting may increase capacity for 
delivery of key interventions (including iCCM). Innovative 
ways to help programmes and sectors work together can 
be included in planning and programme evaluation. The 
workplan of the United Nations Commission on Life-saving 
Commodities for Women and Children (15) includes work on 
innovation related to supply and delivery of commodities. 
Innovations in approaches to financing, both for service and 
product providers (e.g. loans and guarantees) as well as users 
(e.g. micro-credit), are expected to be critical for expanding 
access to modern energy (66).
26
Box 11.  Stock: Creating an SMS system to improve the supply of child health medicines for CCM
In Malawi, CCM was initiated in 2008, targeting children in 
hard-to-reach areas. Health Surveillance Assistants (HSAs) 
are a paid cadre of CHWs who provide CCM services in 
addition to their other responsibilities. Keeping HSAs 
supplied with essential medicines for CCM is difficult due 
to poor infrastructure, such as roads and communication. 
Often, decision-makers at district or central levels have 
little or no information on stock status at the community 
level, and so cannot monitor and address stock problems 
in a timely manner. The Malawi MoH, with support from the 
Improving Supply Chains for Community Case Management 
of Pneumonia and Other Common Diseases of Childhood 
project (SC4CCM) decided to test the use of mobile 
technology for improving communication between the HSAs 
and their resupply point. cStock is a rapid SMS, open-source, 
web-based system that was custom designed by SC4CCM 
for monitoring and managing community-level essential 
medicines and commodities for child health, family planning 
and HIV testing. The system allows HSAs to transmit their 
stock information to the health centre via text message and 
allows community-level data, previously unavailable, to be 
visible to decision-makers at all levels of the system. User 
feedback has been positive, and best practices are being 
generated. The programme is being rolled out in more 
districts, and similar initiatives are in operation in Ethiopia 
and Rwanda. A baseline assessment was done in 2010 and 
the project intends to measure its impact on the availability 
of products.
Source: Adapted from JSI. cStock: Creating an SMS system to improve supply 
of child health medicines for CCM in Malawi. (flyer, undated); JSI. Description 
of the SC4CCM Project in Malawi. (flyer, 2011).
Box 12.  Skymeds, Bihar
In 2011, the World Health Partners (WHP) launched a 
“Skymeds” network of rural private providers across 
25 districts in Bihar, under the joint venture initiative Ananya 
and funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Since 
inception of the programme, access to rapid, affordable, 
high-quality treatments close to home for babies has 
become a reality for many. These gains in access and quality 
of care have been made possible by engaging rural private 
providers, to whom 70-80% of rural people take their children 
first, often for life-threatening pneumonia or diarrhoea, and 
encouraging the adoption of good practices for detection 
and management of childhood illness. Moreover, using 
telemedicine, rural private providers are linked to qualified 
doctors, ultimately increasing capacity for quality care. 
Programme impact is reinforced by a strong supply chain of 
essential medicines, ensuring the availability and affordability 
of medicines for the treatment of pneumonia and diarrhoea, 
including ORS, zinc and amoxicillin. In order to further 
strengthen the combat against childhood pneumonia in 
Bihar, a number of innovations are being explored, many 
of which will aid in the diagnosis and treatment of hypoxia 
(low blood oxygen), which often complicates pneumonia. 
Example innovations that are being explored include 
respiratory rate timers built onto an Android platform that 
will assist rural providers in the detection of fast breathing 
as a key symptom of pneumonia; low-cost pulse oximeters 
that can be used for the detection of hypoxia; and oxygen 
concentrators and generators of oxygen by way of chemical 
reaction that will help remedy the scarcity of supply chains 
for oxygen supplementation in rural areas.
 
Source: Personal Communication, Karen Pak Oppenheimer, WHP, January 2013
•	 Generate demand and ensure supply
Generating demand, both at political and community level, 
involves advocacy and communication strategies. Providing 
information, education and communication to health 
workers, the private sector, the general public and families 
should be an important part of the action plan. Especially 
important are activities to raise awareness of risks and 
increase prevention and care seeking in communities, based 
on formative research into the barriers and other relevant 
factors (see Boxes 13 and 14). Key family and community 
practices that have a major impact on child health have been 
identified. Related interventions have the potential to make 
a substantial contribution to the reduction in mortality/
morbidity and/or improvement in child development (67). 
Experts in relevant fields should be involved to ensure that 
communications are evidence-based, consistent, relevant 
and correctly targeted. Resources should be dedicated for 
this purpose in the action plan (see Box 15). At the global 
level, the Global Coalition Against Child Pneumonia helps to 
generate interest and resources through World Pneumonia 
Day (WPD) activities, and links interested groups together. 
Besides WPD, promotional and informational activities go 
on throughout the year.
When generating demand, actions should be taken to 
ensure that any increased demand for services is met. This 
can be achieved through careful monitoring of progress in 
uptake of interventions, and by ensuring that mechanisms 
are in place to review the availability and distribution of 
human and other resources.
27
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Box 13.  Interventions to generate demand for community case management of pneumonia
The Lady Health Workers (LHW) Programme, Save the 
Children – United States and WHO sought to increase 
demand in communities of Haripur district, Pakistan 
(population over 700,000) for CCM of pneumonia. This was 
the first stage of a trial to determine the effectiveness of 
CCM for children 2-59 months with WHO-defined severe 
pneumonia by LHWs using oral amoxicillin. At baseline, only 
0.9% of caregivers of children with pneumonia sought care 
from LHWs, even though LHWs had been trained to manage 
pneumonia in the community. Qualitative research showed 
that community members perceived LHWs as preventive and 
promotional care providers with limited or no role in curative 
care. Based on these findings, the following interventions 
were implemented to create awareness among community 
leaders and households and increase prompt care seeking 
and demand for treatment of pneumonia by LHWs.
A. District and sub-district level advocacy: Individual and 
group meetings were held with district and sub-district 
nazims (mayors), religious leaders, teachers and other 
opinion leaders to communicate messages around 
LHWs’ capacity to manage pneumonia. Their support 
was sought to disseminate messages to their respective 
communities, and to motivate community members to 
seek care from LHWs.
 
B. Reactivation of men’s and women’s village health 
committees: To create awareness and facilitate their 
work in the community, the programme established or 
reactivated men’s and women’s health committees.
C. Training of LHWs and male health activists (MHAs) in 
community engagement: The LHWs are required to 
conduct at least one community awareness session 
(CAS) per month on maternal, newborn and child health 
topics in their catchment areas. However, pre-service 
training does not provide the necessary skills to engage 
with community women, who are often older than the 
LHWs. Communities were requested to nominate a male 
volunteer from each LHW’s catchment area as a health 
activist (MHA) to facilitate the work of the LHW and 
to conduct CAS for men. The LHWs and MHAs were 
trained in community mobilization and were taught how 
to facilitate the CAS. The training included classroom 
sessions, role plays and supervised community sessions. 
Initial training was followed by regular on-site mentoring 
by Lady Health Supervisors (LHSs) and six monthly 
refresher sessions.
 
After two years of programme implementation, care seeking 
for treatment of pneumonia by LHWs increased to 50%. This 
shift in care seeking from LHWs has brought quality care 
closer to home and decreased visits to referral facilities 
from 46.7% at baseline to 18.9%, a substantial reduction in 
burden on already overloaded referral facilities.
 
Source: Bari et al. Community case management of severe pneumonia with 
oral amoxicillin in children aged 2–59 months in Haripur district, Pakistan: a 
cluster randomized trial. Published online November 11, 2011, DOI:10.1016/
S0140-6736(11)61140-9 and Sadruddin S (personal communication – 
unpublished data).
Box 14.  Baby Zinc mass media campaign
The Baby Zinc mass media campaign was developed to 
spread messages on the benefits of zinc and ORS to fight 
childhood diarrhoea, which is a leading cause of child death 
in Bangladesh. The communication strategy was based 
on understanding the community—their beliefs, culture, 
language and practices—through formative research. 
Multiple channels were used to sustain interest and generate 
demand. Extensive pre-testing ensured proper clarity, 
acceptability and understanding of the messages. A unique 
slogan, which incorporated a sound icon, was created.
Baby Zinc communication was strategically placed in the 
media. An evaluation carried out after initial release showed 
almost 95% product awareness in urban and semi-urban 
locations, with 50% in rural areas, primarily from television.
Commercials were created for television viewers and for 
radio audiences, catering to their different needs. Printed 
materials were developed with customized messages to 
cater to audiences from both the demand and supply 
ends. Promotional activities focused on direct means of 
communication aimed at the target population, including 
courtyard meetings, folk songs and magic shows.
The Baby Zinc slogan has become very popular and sustains 
the growth of zinc use via word-of-mouth. A 13-episode 
weekly television drama serial on zinc treatment, titled Bhalo 
Achhi Bhalo Theko, was aired on Bangladesh government 
television. Set in a rural context, the drama was full of 
humour and entertainment while carrying messages on the 
use of zinc along with ORS for the treatment of diarrhoea 
among children aged from 6 months to 5 years.
 
Source: Adapted from Suzy News, October 2008, ICDDR, B, http://www.
icddrb.org/what-we-do/publications/cat_view/52-publications/10042-icddrb-
periodicals/10071-suzy-news/10095-vol-5-no-2-english-2008/11671-baby-zinc-
mass-media-campaign-dhansiris-experience.
28
Box 15.  Communication strategies
Communication strategies to inform and motivate individual, 
community and social change are vital for child survival 
programmes. To this end, UNICEF and its partners recently 
developed the Communication Framework for New Vaccines 
and Child Survival to support the introduction of new 
vaccines for pneumonia and diarrhoea. This effort is part of a 
comprehensive package to also strengthen complementary 
‘healthy actions’ for pneumonia and diarrhoea control, 
such as early and exclusive breastfeeding, handwashing 
with soap, vaccinations, appropriate care seeking for illness 
symptoms and clean household energy, among others. 
New vaccines require communication strategies not only 
to promote uptake of these vaccines, but also to prevent 
unrealistic community expectations that could damage 
immunization programmes.
The communication framework stresses a structured 
approach to guide the design, implementation and 
evaluation of a national communication plan for child 
survival. Communication is challenging, and there is more 
than one way to carry it out correctly. It must be based on 
the information needs of the intended target audience, 
crafted to both inform and motivate, linked to programme 
goals, based on sound analysis and research and structured 
to include rigorous monitoring and evaluation.
In another communication effort, in 2009, groups from 
around the globe came together to launch WPD. It united a 
broad coalition and focused the attention of policy-makers 
and journalists. With each year, the momentum continues 
to grow as more parents, health workers and policy-makers 
lend their voices to the cause. Thousands of advocates 
— representing more than 140 organizations in over 40 
countries — have joined the Global Coalition Against Child 
Pneumonia to fight this disease. Events commemorating the 
fourth annual WPD in 2012 were planned for nearly a dozen 
countries.
 
Source: UNICEF 2011a, adapted from extract quoted in UNICEF 2012; IVAC. 
World pneumonia day, http://www.jhsph.edu/research/centers-and-institutes/
ivac/projects/world-pneumonia-day.html, accessed 5 November 2012.; 
Communication Framework link: https://sites.google.com/site/commframe/.
8 .  Areas needing special attention 
In the past, some important areas needed to carry out this 
action plan effectively have not received adequate attention. 
With a changing climate, an increased number of large 
protracted outbreaks, recurring global food and nutrition 
crises and rapid and unplanned urbanization, programmes 
for diarrhoea and pneumonia should be flexible and able to 
understand the risks as well as adapt to changes in context.
•	 Involvement with the private sector 
In many high-mortality countries, private sector retailers, 
such as pharmacies and drug shops, play a significant role in 
provision of care for childhood illnesses, particularly diarrhoea. 
In addition to the risk of unregulated distribution of drugs 
through the private market, more expensive and ineffective 
treatments may be provided (e.g. antibiotics or anti-motility 
agents for diarrhoea rather than ORS and zinc). On the other 
hand, private practitioners, reached through their associations, 
can be strong allies for appropriate care when included in 
awareness-raising and educational activities.
Experience of working with this sector is growing (see 
Table 2 and Boxes 16, 17 and 18 for examples). As mentioned 
previously, the United Nations Commission on Life-Saving 
Commodities for Women and Children is strengthening 
public-private partnerships for 1) the delivery of ORS and zinc 
for diarrhoea and of oral amoxicillin for pneumonia treatment, 
2) the production of child-friendly formulations at affordable 
prices and 3) the creation of demand at national levels.
29
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Table 2.  Working with the private sector. Actions that government, partners and donors can undertake to collaborate with 
the private sector at each level of the supply chain
Area for impact
Government / partner / donor activities
Case example
Decrease product 
manufacturing 
cost 
•	 Work closely with pharmaceutical manufacturers to 
negotiate lower prices for important commodities in 
order to enhance availability of appropriate, affordable 
drugs in the public as well as in the private sector
•	 Provide assistance to manufacturers on their cost 
structure in order to identify potential efficiencies (e.g. 
optimal sourcing)
Contraceptives
Through a coalition of governments, private 
donors and NGOs, a leading drug company 
agreed to reduce its price of long-acting 
contraception by more than half, improving 
accessibility of these contraceptives for 27 million 
women in the developing world.
Encourage 
imports of 
essential 
commodities
•	 Remove barriers to importation: waive import duties 
and taxes, and expedite registration processes 
•	 Provide market intelligence, including demand 
forecasts, market size estimates, and transparency on 
plans for parallel demand generation in the public 
sector 
Affordable Medicines Facility – malaria (AMFm) 
artemisinin-based combination therapy (ACT) 
imports
Under the AMFm, 156 million doses of 
ACT-treatments were imported in 8 AMFm-
participating countries, leading to large increases 
in ACT availability (26–52%) in 6 pilot countries.
Interventions included:
•	 Regulatory changes, including over-the-counter 
status
•	 Regular private sector fora to engage first-line 
buyers and major wholesalers 
Activate 
wholesalers and 
distributors to 
include essential 
commodities 
in their supply 
chains
•	 Work with major wholesalers and distributors to 
ensure essential commodities are included in their 
supply chain
•	 Provide 
support 
in 
optimizing 
supply 
chain 
management and distribution
•	 Facilitate efficiency improvements by connecting 
wholesalers directly with high-volume clients/groups 
of clients
Zinc and ORS scale-up in Benin
By working with the major wholesalers to market 
OraselZinc through the commercial distribution 
channels for fast-moving consumer goods 
(kiosks, drug vendors, retail shops), access to and 
availability of OraselZinc increased from 36% to 
58% within a year in Benin.
Improve private 
providers 
prescription at 
the delivery level 
through training, 
detailing, 
and other 
interventions
•	 Engage private providers (pharmacists, chemists, 
drug vendors and general stores) to improve their 
knowledge and capabilities: 
a.	 Include private providers in existing training 
activities
b.	 Reach providers’ professional associations and 
key opinion leaders
c.	 Establish an accreditation system for lower-level 
providers 
Zinc and ORS detailing in India
Deploy public/private detailing forces to 
promote and sell zinc and ORS, likely to be 
contained in a basket of goods in order to 
incentivize usage.
Improve access 
to lower-emission 
solid fuel stoves 
and clean 
fuels through 
involvement of 
producers and 
suppliers
•	 Engagement can help in understanding the market for 
energy technology and services, and in implementing 
key quality measures including standards and testing
•	 This engagement can lead to more effective policies 
to promote demand, and can provide supply through 
private sector loans and increasing affordability for 
users
•	 Engagement will facilitate contributions from the 
private sector for monitoring and evaluation
Cleaner energy access in Indonesia 
Conversion of more than 40 million homes from 
polluting kerosene cooking to LPG was achieved 
through cooperation between the government 
and the national oil company Pertamina, with 
involvement of individual kerosene suppliers 
encouraged to switch to LPG provision. There are 
many other examples of cooperation between 
the public sector, producers and NGOs in the 
development and promotion of improved stoves 
and cleaner fuels.
Source: (68, 69) 
30
Box 16.  	 United Republic of Tanzania: Accredited drug dispensing outlets—Duka la Dawa Muhimu
Duka la dawa baridi (DLDB) are authorized to provide 
nonprescription medicines to the private sector in the 
United Republic of Tanzania. With an estimated 4 600-plus 
stores, DLDB constitute the largest network of licensed 
retail outlets for purchasing medicines. The accredited 
drug dispensing outlet (ADDO) project aimed to improve 
access to affordable, quality medicines and pharmaceutical 
services in retail drug outlets in rural or periurban areas 
where there are few or no registered pharmacies. To achieve 
this goal, the Strategies for Enhancing Access to Medicines 
(SEAM) Program took a holistic approach that combined 
changing the behaviour and expectations of individuals and 
groups who use, own, regulate or work in retail drug shops. 
For shop owners and dispensing staff, this was achieved 
by combining training, incentives, consumer pressure and 
regulatory coercion with efforts to affect client demand for, 
and expectations of, quality products and services.
A SEAM Program evaluation of the ADDO shops in 2004 
compared them with a control group of DLDB. The key 
lessons learned included:
•	 Pharmaceutical services in developing countries can be 
substantially improved through training, accreditation and 
regulation of private-sector drug sellers, but supervision 
and monitoring are needed. 
•	 Broad-based support from all stakeholders from the public 
and private sectors is crucial for the project’s design and 
implementation.
•	 Defining the appropriate, country-specific mix of public- 
and private-sector responsibilities in a drug seller initiative 
is critical for timely scale-up and sustainability.
•	 Owner, dispenser and local regulatory/inspector training, 
as well as supervision and mentoring, is expensive and 
time consuming and needs to be adequately addressed 
when developing sustainability and rollout strategies.
 
Source: Adapted from Tanzania: Accredited Drug Dispensing Outlets—
Duka la Dawa Muhimu on the Management Sciences for Health, Rational 
Pharmaceutical Management Plus, website http://www.msh.org/projects/
rpmplus/WhereWeWork/Africa/ADDOs.cfm, accessed 5 September 2012.
Box 17.  Using the informal private sector to improve quality of care with zinc and ORS – the case of the Point-of-Use 
Water Disinfection and Zinc Treatment (POUZN) Project, Uttar Pradesh, India
Introduction of zinc and ORS through the public health 
sector may not reach the vulnerable populations that need 
them the most since a classic market introduction of zinc 
would only trickle down to private providers at a very slow 
pace. The POUZN project in India worked with commercial 
partners to produce and sell zinc. However, there was no 
direct contact with informal practitioners or retail outlets 
in remote areas. To bridge this gap, the POUZN project 
trained existing indigenous medical providers in Uttar 
Pradesh to use zinc and ORS. These unlicensed providers 
normally treat almost 63% of children less than 3 years of 
age who are suffering from diarrhoea. Through local NGOs, 
approximately 2000 rural medical practitioners (RMPs) and 
500 drug sellers were identified to provide access to zinc 
and ORS in rural areas.
 
The project designed communication tools for both 
the retailers and their clients, including a short DVD 
designed to raise awareness and convey consistent 
and correct messages about zinc. Retailers were given 
DVD players, as well as simple monitoring forms in order 
to track prescription practices and client satisfaction. 
Following a review, the project streamlined the strategy 
and expanded the programme. About 20 000 RMPs and 
5000 drug sellers served a catchment area of around 
13 million people. High rates of increase in use of a 
recommended point-of-use water treatment were observed.
The NGO representatives primed the market in their areas 
and, equally important, compiled information about the 
top 25% or so prescribers. POUZN shared this information 
with companies selling zinc in Uttar Pradesh—essentially 
identifying their prime customers. Creating such a bridge 
encourages companies to commit to this new market as it 
gives them an economic incentive to become more active 
in underserved areas. It also allows rural providers to learn 
about and have access not only to zinc, but also to other 
drugs and health products. It ultimately permits removal of 
subsidies once the rural market has been primed.
 
Source:  Adapted from USAID. Introducing improved treatment of childhood 
diarrhoea with zinc and ORT in India, Indonesia and Tanzania. Washington DC, 
POUZN Project, 2010.
Improving and monitoring quality 
Progress on child survival is dependent on delivery of quality, 
appropriately funded interventions. At the country level, 
monitoring service quality is an essential part of programme 
management. Tools, guidelines and experience exist for 
measuring both content and process in quality improvement 
efforts. WHO and partners have developed facility-level quality 
of care indicators for maternal, neonatal and child health 
services. These indicators are intended for routine assessment 
and application of the results to improve services. Methods 
have also been developed to assess the quality of child health 
care delivered at the community level as part of the Catalytic 
Initiative to Save a Million Lives (70), an international partnership 
aimed at strengthening health systems to accelerate progress 
towards MDGs 4 and 5. The tools have been used in Ethiopia 
and Malawi and are available for adaptation and use in other 
settings. Participatory Community Quality Improvement 
31
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
(PCQI) is a community-based strategy implemented by the 
Last Ten Kilometres Project (L10K) in Ethiopia, which has 
shown some positive results (see Box 18). Furthermore, WASH 
facilities within health care centres are important not just for 
infection control but also for overall service satisfaction and 
improving quality of care. Likewise, energy is required in order 
to provide high quality health care; for example, a reliable 
electrical supply is needed to ensure adequate lighting and 
functioning of equipment such as oxygen concentrators, as 
well as for the cold chain. Despite the importance of energy, a 
high proportion of health facilities in Africa and other regions 
have no electricity.
Box 18.  Involving communities to improve quality of care – a participatory approach used by the L10K Project in Ethiopia
In some settings, the introduction of CCM has led to 
increased curative services for childhood illness. However, 
the performance and quality of most child health services is 
poor, thus limiting good health outcomes. The L10K Project 
in Ethiopia developed an approach called Participatory 
Community Quality Improvement (PCQI) to improve quality 
and accessibility of health care through greater involvement 
of the community and HEWs.
The PCQI ensures continuous quality improvement through 
a cyclical process. First, the community members identify the 
main bottlenecks and barriers to the accessibility and quality 
of services. Second, they suggest possible adjustments and 
advances in these problem areas and take responsibility 
for monitoring and targeting improvements of access to 
services and quality of service provision. HEWs also meet 
quarterly to discuss these issues. Representatives from these 
different groups share their findings through a “Bridging 
the Gap” workshop, establish a quality improvement team 
and develop a clear plan of action to improve access to and 
quality of services provided.
In one year of implementation of PCQI, a number of 
positive changes have been observed. Some of the 
barriers to accessibility and quality of care identified and 
addressed include: harmful traditional beliefs, lack of access 
to services by families, lack of services available at night 
and HEWs’ insufficient practical experience. Examples of 
community-driven initiatives include firm commitment to 
the maintenance and improvement of roads leading to 
clinics, construction of HEW lodgings near health facilities 
to facilitate the provision of emergency services during the 
night, and pooling of funds to buy supplies for the health 
posts to help improve quality of care.
 
Source: Adapted from L10K Policy Brief, Vol. 2 - Participatory Community 
Quality Improvement Approach (PCQI) in Ethiopia http://l10k.jsi.com/
Resources/policy_briefs.htm accessed February 14, 2013.
 
Delivering more impact with lower costs
In many places, resources for health are not increasing as 
rapidly as needed, especially where demand generation efforts 
are in place. This situation can limit efforts to deliver services, 
including those to prevent, protect and treat pneumonia 
and diarrhoea in an equitable manner. Allocating resources 
more effectively requires making decisions based on local 
epidemiology and burden of disease estimates, identifying 
priority interventions, understanding the resources available 
and where they can be best used, and taking advantage of 
new tools. For example, OneHealth and Marginal Budgeting 
for Bottlenecks are analytical tools for evidence-based health 
policy, planning, costing and budgeting at country level. 
These tools help simulate the potential impact on health-
related coverage and outcomes, as well as cost and budget 
implications of alternative health service delivery strategies 
using 
different 
approaches 
(community/ 
family-based, 
population / outreach-based, or clinic-based).
Moving to sustainability
There are many examples of investments in health that are ended 
prematurely in response to the cessation of external funding or 
the prioritization of new initiatives. In recent years, more emphasis 
has been put on sustaining improvements, and there is a growing 
body of work to help planners and managers know what to do 
to sustain evidence-based interventions and programmes in 
countries. Implementation of interventions for pneumonia and 
diarrhoea should aim to sustain any gains made.
9 .  Monitoring and evaluation
Tracking progress on efforts to control pneumonia and 
diarrhoea needs dedicated attention. Countries will have 
primary responsibility for ensuring that data are available and 
used for action, and for measuring progress.
The indicators for GAPPD targets (Table 3) have been selected 
because they are also being used to monitor progress towards 
MDG 4 in the Countdown to 2015 and the United Nations CoIA. 
The other indicators cover key areas (such as water, sanitation 
and energy) not included in those initiatives. They are usually 
captured by routine health information systems and/or DHS 
and MICS, or by other established processes. Thus the data 
to measure them is likely to be readily available, even after 
2015. Countries will need to establish mechanisms to ensure 
that data collected by community health and similar workers 
is incorporated into reporting systems. In some cases, more 
frequent sampling of high-risk communities than the DHS and 
MICS permit will be required. 
Globally, United Nations agencies and other partners will 
continue to support countries and compile regional and 
global information. For immunization coverage, WHO-
32
UNICEF estimates based on government reports are available 
at the national level. 
Data measuring progress towards GAPPD goals will be 
measured through surveillance efforts, existing processes 
such as the Child Health Epidemiology Research Group, and 
through improved burden of disease impact models. The iERG 
of the United Nations CoIA will be involved as appropriate, as 
will as the World Health Assembly. 
WHO and UNICEF have been leading the process to develop 
post-2015 water and sanitation targets. The indicators 
below are based on this work and adapted specifically to 
the GAPPD timeline (2025 compared to 2030 as used in the 
water and sanitation targets). In addition, a target specifically 
on household water treatment and safe storage is proposed 
based on the 2011-2016 Strategy of the WHO/UNICEF 
International Network on Household Water Treatment and 
Safe Storage (71). These targets will be reviewed by a WHO-
commissioned Taskforce that will focus specifically on health 
in 2013. 
WHO and partners are developing a comprehensive 
monitoring and evaluation strategy for clean household 
energy. This combines ‘bottom-up’ information based on 
supply and purchase of interventions, with ‘top-down’ data 
from national surveys. Ad-hoc field studies are also included 
for more complete evaluation of intervention use and 
impacts. Work to develop and test survey instruments is at 
the planning stage. 
Table 3.  Indicators to evaluate progress in achieving key operational targets for pneumonia and diarrhoea control
Indicator
Definition
Sources of Data
Hib immunization coverage 
Percentage of children aged 12-23 months who 
received 3 doses of Hib vaccine
WHO/UNICEF estimates
Measles immunization coverage
Percentage of children aged 12-23 months 
immunized with measles-containing vaccine
WHO/UNICEF estimates 
DTP3 immunization coverage
Percentage of children aged 12-23 months who 
received 3 doses of DTP3 vaccine
WHO/UNICEF estimates
PCV immunization coverage
Percentage of children aged 12-23 months who 
received 3 doses of PCV
WHO/UNICEF estimates
Rotavirus immunization coverage
Percentage of children aged 12-23 months who 
received completed schedule of rotavirus vaccine
WHO/UNICEF estimates
Exclusive breastfeeding 
for 6 months
Percentage of infants aged 0-5 months who are 
exclusively breastfed
DHS, MICS, national nutrition surveys
Continued breastfeeding at 1 year
Proportion of children 12–15 months of age who are 
fed breast milk
DHS, MICS, national nutrition surveys
Complementary feeding
Percentage of children aged 6-23 months who 
received a minimum acceptable diet
DHS, national nutrition surveys
Vitamin A supplementary coverage
Percentage of children 6 -59 months who received 
2 annual doses
Monitoring data from bi-annual 
events; HMIS
Oral rehydration therapy 
Percentage of children aged 0-59 months with 
diarrhoea receiving oral rehydration therapy 
DHS, MICS, community-based 
surveillance data
Zinc for the treatment of diarrhoea
% of children with diarrhoea who received ORT and 
an appropriate course of zinc
DHS, MICS, community-based 
surveillance data
Care seeking for pneumonia 
Percentage of children aged 0-59 months with 
suspected pneumonia taken to an appropriate health 
provider
DHS, MICS
Antibiotic treatment for pneumonia
Percentage of children aged 0-59 months with 
suspected pneumonia receiving appropriate 
antibiotics
DHS, MICS, national surveys 2
Antiretroviral prophylaxis among 
HIV-positive pregnant women to 
prevent vertical transmission of HIV
Percentage of HIV-infected pregnant women who 
received antiretrovirals to reduce the risk of mother-
to-child transmission
Health information system
Handwashing with soap
Percentage of households and health care facilities 
with soap and water, and a handwashing facility
MICS, national surveys, 
Hygienic sanitation facility
Percentage of households and health care facilities 
with a hygienic sanitation facility
DHS, MICS, national surveys
1	
Some data for this indicator is collected through DHS, but methodological problems exist.
33
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Indicator
Definition
Sources of Data
Access to improved drinking-water
Percentage of households and health care facilities 
that report using an improved water source 
DHS, MICS, national surveys 
Use of household water treatment 
and safe storage 3
Percentage of households and health care facilities 
with an observed treatment method/product (+ water 
quality testing in a sub-set of households) 
DHS, MICS, national surveys 
Household air pollution 
Percentage of households using clean fuels for 
cooking 
WHO Household Energy database 
(DHS, MICS, Living Standards 
Measurement Study, national surveys 
and censuses) 
Source: Indicators to evaluate progress in achieving key operational targets for pneumonia and diarrhoea control
WHO is working with the World Bank and other SEFA partners 
to develop a multi-tiered framework (72) to serve as a basis for 
setting targets and monitoring progress in access to modern 
energy for households and community services, pollutant 
emission levels and electricity supply. The proposed framework 
will be tested and refined, with a view to implementation 
within two to three years. 
10 .  Global role of partners 
The achievement of the global objectives for pneumonia 
and diarrhoea control will require coordination of relevant 
programmes at country and regional levels, as well as expanded 
support from development agencies and those managing 
emergencies and outbreaks. Partners will be called on to align 
their support with government-led action plans and priorities.2
The goals of the GAPPD support those of the Global Strategy for 
Women’s and Children’s Health and the EWEC movement, and in 
particular, support the call for action of the Committing to Child 
Survival: A Promise Renewed.
A core group of international partners from United Nations 
agencies, 
technical 
institutions 
and 
other 
stakeholders 
spearheaded the development of the GAPP and the GAPPD. 
The partners are leading specific activities related to their 
expertise and interest and may assign dedicated staff to these 
activities. Within the United Nations system, WHO and UNICEF 
have a leading responsibility based on their combined expertise 
and experience of child survival efforts. 
Many international governmental and NGOs are already 
providing, or planning to provide, assistance to developing 
countries to help build and sustain national capacity for 
control of pneumonia and diarrhoea in young children. These 
activities are usually integrated into actions designed to 
address the MDG 4 target. Such supportive activities must 
be maintained and enhanced with, where necessary, specific 
emphasis on pneumonia and diarrhoea, and must be 
sustained beyond 2015. 
Regional and international agencies will be called upon to 
provide technical assistance for country activities, and where 
appropriate, provide opportunities for country-to-country 
2	
For a full list of recommended indicators refer to: WHO/UNICEF, 2012. 
Toolkit for monitoring and evaluating household water treatment and safe 
storage programmes. http://www.who.int/household_water/resources/
toolkit_monitoring_evaluating/en/index.html
exchange of experience. These activities are likely to include: 
revision, adaptation and development of technical, operational 
and managerial policies; pricing of vaccines, drugs and 
equipment; and presentation of a concise technical programme 
with projections of cost and outcomes. For example, UNICEF 
and partners are working closely with manufacturers to increase 
zinc availability, as UNICEF is the largest buyer of zinc tablets, 
representing over 80% of international procurement. It is also the 
largest procurer of dispersible amoxicillin tablets.
Key partners can also make an important contribution to 
addressing risk factors beyond the health sector that need action, 
such as access to clean household energy. National groups tasked 
with coordination of pneumonia and diarrhoea control can draw 
on the activities and input of SEFA and the UNF Global Alliance 
for Clean Cookstoves and their implementing partners (both 
international and in-country). Not only will this provide valuable 
technical (e.g. risk assessment, technology development and 
evaluation; international standards and testing) and policy (e.g. 
market development, financing) support for national action 
plans, but will also help to define the important contributions that 
can be made from the health system. 
In partnerships like this, stronger accountability for actions is 
required. 
The GAVI Alliance and its support for health system strengthening 
and new vaccine introduction can also be used at the country 
level to ensure health worker training, monitoring and evaluation, 
supply chain management, etc. Over the past 3 years, the GAVI 
Alliance has assisted over 20 countries to introduce pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccine (PCV), which prevents the most common 
cause of childhood pneumonia. Introduction of new vaccines can 
provide a platform for the provision of other commodities such 
as antibiotics, ORS and zinc, as well as facilitate the update of 
joint reporting and monitoring tools (e.g. registers, Child Health 
Cards).
34
11 .  Research needs
Pneumonia and diarrhoea control efforts are unlikely to be 
effective unless supported by strong research, both basic and 
operational. The neglect of research in the fields of pneumonia 
and diarrhoea over the past decade has left many important 
clinical and epidemiological questions unanswered. The 
GAPPD is committed to the promotion of research, including 
community-based action research and sociocultural research 
on knowledge, attitudes, perceptions, cultural practices and 
health seeking behaviours. While country programmes move 
to scale up interventions, there will be a need for research on 
delivery strategies, on overcoming barriers to interventions 
and on better ways for implementation. However, the need 
for such research is no reason to delay the implementation 
of effective interventions now. Research efforts to control 
pneumonia and diarrhoea in children must include building 
research capacity in the countries most affected.
12 .  Opportunities 2013 –2025
The MDGs have built considerable momentum and 
strengthened political commitment to child survival and 
development. The significant reduction in under-five mortality 
that has been achieved since 1990 has saved millions of young 
lives over the past two decades. Much of this progress has 
been achieved by the adoption of basic health interventions in 
the context of general development, economic improvement, 
increased female education and improved technology. 
However, 2015 is almost here, and much work remains to be 
done through to at least 2025. The GAPPD provides a way to 
enhance progress toward the prevention and control of the 
top child killers during the countdown to 2015 and beyond. 
This opportunity to advocate for and provide increased 
investment in pneumonia and diarrhoea should not be missed. 
Considering the size of the global burden of childhood 
pneumonia and diarrhoea, the resources required to provide 
proven interventions are relatively modest.
A further opportunity is the general acknowledgement that the 
successful reduction of global health problems requires active 
involvement of affected communities, supported by effective 
international partnerships and collaborative efforts. Policies 
and actions are laying the groundwork for this community-
based approach.
13 .  Conclusion
The global MDG 4 target – reduction of child mortality by two 
thirds – is still out of reach for many of the poorest countries 
of the world. Although the MDG target for access to improved 
water has been met, hundreds of millions of people still lack 
access to safe and reliable drinking-water and 2.5 billion have 
no access to improved sanitation. Targets for improving the 
health of children beyond 2015 will not be achieved without 
urgent action on pneumonia and diarrhoea from national 
governments as well as supporting partners at the global level. 
Focused, coordinated and integrated international, national 
and sub-national action on pneumonia and diarrhoea control, 
as foreseen in the GAPPD, is needed now. In a changing world, 
programmes for diarrhoea and pneumonia must be flexible 
and able to understand risks and adapt to changes in context. 
This document calls on all concerned groups to demonstrate 
their commitment, allocate the required resources, and work 
together to make preventable child deaths due to pneumonia 
and diarrhoea a tragedy of the past.
35
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
References
1.	
United Nations Secretary General. Global strategy for 
women’s and children’s health. Geneva, Partnership for 
Maternal, Newborn and Child Health, 2012.
2.	
Committing to child survival: a promise renewed, leaflet 
available at: http://www.apromiserenewed.org/, accessed 
1 February 2013.
3.	
WHO. Evaluating household water treatment options: 
health-based targets and microbiological performance 
specifications. Geneva, WHO, 2011.
4.	
United Nations Inter-agency Group for Child Mortality 
Estimation. Levels and trends in child mortality: report 
2012. New York, UNICEF, 2012.
5.	
WHO. Global Health Observatory (http://www.who.int/
gho/child_health/en/index.html).
6.	
Black RE et al. Maternal and child undernutrition: global 
and regional exposures and health consequences. Lancet, 
2008, 371(9608):243-260
7.	
Head, et al. UK investments in global infectious disease 
research 1997—2010: a case study. Lancet Infectious 
Diseases, 2012, doi:10.1016/S1473-3099(12)70261-X.
8.	
WHO/UNICEF. Pneumonia: The Forgotten Killer. Geneva, 
WHO, 2009. 
9.	
UNICEF/WHO. Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying 
and what can be done. New York, UNICEF, 2009.
10.	 UNICEF. Pneumonia and diarrhoea: Tackling the deadliest 
diseases for the world’s poorest children. New York, 
UNICEF, 2012.
11.	 Countdown to 2015: building a future for women and 
children: the 2012 report. Report available at: www.
countdown2015mnch.org/reports-and-articles/2012-
report, accessed 1 February 2013.
12.	 Liu L et al. Child Health Epidemiology Reference Group of 
WHO and UNICEF. Global, regional, and national causes 
of child mortality: an updated systematic analysis for 2010 
with time trends since 2000. Lancet, 2010, 379:2151-2161.
13.	 WHO/UNICEF. Global action plan for prevention and 
control of pneumonia. Geneva, WHO, 2009.
14.	 Canadian International Development Agency et al., 
Declaration on scaling up treatment of diarrhea and 
pneumonia, 
http://www.apromiserenewed.org/files/
Pneumonia_and_Diarrhea_Declaration_layout_13June12.
pdf, accessed 22 August 2012.
15.	 United Nations Commission on Life-Saving Commodities 
for Women and Children. Implementation plan. New 
York, United Nations, 2012. Available at: http://www.
everywomaneverychild.org/images/Implementation_
plan_Sept_2012.pdf, accessed 26 November 2012.
16.	 Resolution WHA63.24. Accelerated progress towards 
achievement of Millennium Development Goal 4 to 
reduce child mortality: prevention and treatment of 
pneumonia. Available at: http://apps.who.int/gb/ebwha/
pdf_files/WHA63-REC1/WHA63_REC1-en.pdf, accessed 
1 February 2013.
17.	 United Nations Resolution A/RES/58/217. International 
decade for action ‘Water for life’, 2005-2015. Available at: 
http://www.un.org/waterforlifedecade/milestones.shtml, 
accessed 1 February 2013.
18.	 UN launches major push to improve global sanitation by 
2015. Available at: http://www.un.org/apps/news/story.
asp?NewsID=38783&Cr=sanitation#.UP08EWddwTU, 
accessed 1 February 2013.
19.	 Commission on Information and Accountability for 
Women’s and Children’s Health. Keeping promises, 
measuring results. Geneva, WHO, 2011. Available at: 
http://www.everywomaneverychild.org/images/content/
files/accountability_commission/final_report/Final_EN_
Web.pdf.
20.	 WHO. Draft global vaccine action plan. Geneva, WHO, 
2012, Resolution WHAA65/22.
21.	 Declaration from Rio+20 Conference, Rio de Janeiro, 
2012. Available at: http://www.uncsd2012.org/content/
documents/727The%20Future%20We%20Want%20
19%20June%201230pm.pdf, accessed 1 February 2013.
22.	 Wateraid. The sanitation problem: what can and should 
the health sector do. London, Wateraid, 2011. Available 
at: http://www.wateraid.org/uk/, accessed 1 February 
2013.
23.	 Infant and young child feeding: Model Chapter for 
textbooks for medical students and allied health 
professionals, 
http://www.who.int/maternal_child_
adolescent/documents/9789241597494/en/index.html
24.	 WHO. Pneumococcal vaccines: WHO position paper. 
Weekly Epidemiological Record, 2012, 14(87):129–144; 
WHO. 
25.	 WHO position paper on Haemophilus influenzae b 
conjugate vaccines. Weekly Epidemiological Record, 
2006, 47(81): 445-452.
26.	 WHO. Measles vaccines: WHO position paper. Weekly 
Epidemiological Record, 2009, 35(84): 349-360
27.	 WHO. Pertussis vaccines: WHO position paper. Weekly 
Epidemiological Record, 2010, 40(85): 385-400. 
28.	 WHO. Pocket book for hospital care for children: 
guidelines for the management of common illnesses with 
limited resources, 2nd edition. Geneva, WHO, 2013 (in 
press).
29.	 WHO. 
Recommendations 
for 
common 
childhood 
conditions: evidence for technical update of pocket 
book recommendations. Geneva, WHO, 2012. Available 
at: 
http://www.who.int/maternal_child_adolescent/
documents/management_childhood_conditions/en/
index.html
36
30.	 WHO. Technical updates on the guidelines on the IMCI: 
evidence and recommendations for further adaptations. 
Geneva, WHO, 2013 (in press). 
31.	 WHO. Global costs and benefits of drinking-water supply 
and sanitation interventions to reach the MDG target 
and universal coverage. Geneva, WHO, 2012. http://
www.who.int/water_sanitation_health/publications/2012/
global_costs/en/index.html 
32.	 Smith KR, McCracken JP, Weber MW, Hubbard A, Jenny 
A, Thompson LM, Balmes J, Diaz A, Arana B, Bruce N. 
Effect of reduction in household air pollution on childhood 
pneumonia in Guatemala (RESPIRE): a randomised 
controlled trial. Lancet, 2011; 378:1717-1726.
33.	 Niessen L et al. Comparative impact assessment of child 
pneumonia interventions. Bulletin of the World Health 
Organization, 2009, 87:472-280.
34.	 Black RE et al. Maternal and child undernutrition: global 
and regional exposures and health consequences. Lancet, 
2008, 371(9608):243-260.
35.	 Bhutta ZA et al. Interventions to address diarrhoea and 
pneumonia deaths equitably: what works and at what 
costs? Lancet, 2013, in press.
36.	 Lamberti LM et al. Breastfeeding and the risk for diarrhea 
morbidity and mortality. BioMed Central Public Health, 
2011, 11(Supp3):S15.
37.	 Jones G et al. How many child deaths can we prevent this 
year? Lancet, 2003, 362:65-71.
38.	 Beaton, 
G 
et 
al. 
Effectiveness 
of 
vitamin 
A 
supplementation in the control of young child morbidity 
and mortality in developing countries. State of the Art 
Series. Administrative Committee on Coordination/
Subcommittee on Nutrition, 1993, Geneva. 
39.	 Theodoratou E et al. The effect of Haemophilus influenza 
type b and pneumococcal conjugate vaccines on 
childhood pneumonia incidence, severe morbidity and 
mortality. International Journal of Epidemiology, 2010, 
39(Suppl 1):i172-i85. 
40.	 Munos M, Fischer Walker CL, Black RE. The effect of 
rotavirus vaccine on diarrhoea mortality. International 
Journal of Epidemiology, 2010, 39:i56–i62.
41.	 Webster J et al. An evaluation of emerging vaccines for 
childhood pneumococcal pneumonia. BioMed Central 
Public Health, 2011, 11(Supp3):S26.
42.	 Stover J, McKinnon R, Winfrey B. Spectrum: a model 
platform for linking maternal and child survival 
interventions with AIDS, family planning and demographic 
projections. International Journal of Epidemiology, 2010, 
39(Suppl.1):i7-i10. 
43.	 Cairncross S et al. Water, sanitation and hygiene for 
the prevention of diarrhoea. International Journal of 
Epidemiology, 2010, 39(Suppl.1):i193-i205.
44.	 Clasen T et al. Interventions to improve water quality 
for preventing diarrhoea: systematic review and meta-
analysis. British Medical Journal, 2007, 334(7597):782.
45.	 Smith KR et al. Effect of reduction in household air pollution 
on childhood pneumonia in Guatemala (RESPIRE): a 
randomised controlled trial. Lancet, 2011, 378:1717-1726.
46.	 Smith KR et al. Indoor air pollution from unprocessed 
solid fuel use and pneumonia risk in under-5 children: 
systematic review and meta-analysis. Bulletin of the World 
Health Organization, 2008, 86(5):390-398.
47.	 Zaidi AKM et al. Effect of case management on neonatal 
mortality due to sepsis and pneumonia. BioMed Central 
Public Health, 2011, 11(Supp3):S13.
48.	 Theodoratou E et al. The effect of case management on 
childhood pneumonia mortality in developing countries. 
International Journal of Epidemiology, 2010, 39(Suppl 
1):i155-i171. 
49.	 Munos MK, Walker CL, Black RE. The effect of oral 
rehydration solution and recommended home fluids on 
diarrhoea mortality. International Journal of Epidemiology, 
2010, 39(Suppl 1):i75-i87.
50.	 Fischer Walker CL, Black RE. Zinc for the treatment of 
diarrhoea: effect on diarrhoea morbidity, mortality and 
incidence of future episodes. International Journal of 
Epidemiology, 2010, 39(Suppl 1):i63-i69. 
51.	 Countdown to 2015. Building a future for women and 
children: the 2012 report. Geneva, WHO, 2012. 
52.	 WHO vaccine-preventable disease monitoring system, 
2012 
global, 
http://apps.who.int/immunization_
monitoring/en/globalsummary/GS_GLOProfile.
pdf?CFID=6592960&CFTOKEN=29409529, accessed 21 
August 2012.
53.	 UNICEF/WHO. Progress on drinking water and sanitation: 
2012 update. New York, UNICEF, 2012.
54.	 Bonjour S et al. Solid fuel use for household cooking: 
country 
and 
regional 
estimates 
for 
1980-2010. 
Environmental Health Perspectives, 2013 (resubmitted 
following revision). Available at: http://apps.who.int/gho/
data/?vid=34000, accessed 1 February 2013.
55.	 Mulholland EK et al. Equity and child survival strategies. 
Bulletin of the World Health Organization, 2008; 86:399-
407. 
56.	 Victora CG et al. How changes in coverage affect equity in 
maternal and child health interventions in 35 Countdown 
to 2015 countries: an analysis of national surveys. Lancet, 
published online September 20, 2012, http://dx.doi.
org/10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61427-5.
57.	 Chopra M et al. Strategies to improve health coverage 
and narrow the equity gap in child survival, health, and 
nutrition. Lancet, published online September 20, 2012 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61423-8.
58.	 WHO. Health inequities in the South-East Asia Region: 
magnitudes and trends, and what contributes to health 
inequities. Delhi, WHO, 2007.
59.	 Global 
Health 
Workforce 
Alliance 
et 
al. 
Joint 
statement: scaling-up the community-based health 
workforce for emergencies. N.d. Available at: http://
37
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
internationalmedicalcorps.org/document.doc?id=212, 
accessed 1 February 2013.
60.	 Wisner B, Adams J, eds. WHO. Environmental health 
in emergencies and disasters: a practical guide. 
Geneva, WHO, 2002. Available at: http://www.who.
int/water_sanitation_health/hygiene/emergencies/
emergencies2002/en/, accessed 1 February 2013.
61.	 UNICEF. The state of the world’s children 2012. Children in 
an urban world. New York, UNICEF, 2012.
62.	 Global Health Observatory. Exposure to outdoor air 
pollution. Available at: http://www.who.int/gho/phe/
outdoor_air_pollution/exposure/en/index.html, accessed 
1 February 2013.
63.	 Wood, et al. Understanding why women adopt and sustain 
home water treatment: insights from the Malawi antenatal 
care program. Social Science and Medicine, 2011, 1-9.
64.	 Sheth AN et al. Impact of integration of water treatment 
and handwashing incentives with antenatal services 
in hygiene practices of pregnant women in Malawi. 
American Journal of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
2010, 83(6):1315-1321.
65.	 WHO. Combined household water treatment and indoor 
air pollution projects in urban Mambanda, Cameroon and 
rural Nyanza, Kenya. Geneva, WHO, 2011.
66.	 International Energy Agency. World Energy Outlook. 
Paris, International Energy Agency, 2011.
67.	 Hill Z, Kirkwood BR, Edmond K. Family and community 
practices that promote child survival, growth and 
development: a review of the evidence. Geneva, WHO, 
2004.
68.	 Personal Communication, Nine Steensma, Clinton Health 
Access Initiative
69.	 Hanung B, Muhammad YA. Providing cleaner energy 
access in Indonesia through the megaproject of kerosene 
conversion to LPG. Energy Policy, 2011, 39(12):7575–7586.
70.	 Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. 
Catalytic initiative to save 1 million lives. Available 
at: 
http://www.jhsph.edu/departments/international-
health/centers-and-institutes/institute-for-international-
programs/projects/catalyticinitiative.html , accessed 1 
February 2013.
71.	 WHO/UNICEF. Phase II (2011/2016) Strategy of the 
International Network on Household Water Treatment 
and Safe Storage. Available at: http://www.who.int/
household_water/resources/NetworkStrategyMar2011.
pdf, accessed 1 February 2013.
72.	 WHO. Sustainable energy for all: tracking progress. 
Available 
at: 
http://www.sustainableenergyforall.org/
tracking-progress, accessed 1 February 2013.
38
ANNEX
Annex 1.  Previous Action Plans for Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (summaries)
1.1.  Pneumonia: The Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia (GAPP), launched in 2009 
by WHO and UNICEF
Goals and vision
The Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of 
Pneumonia is that every child is protected against pneumonia 
through a healthy environment and has access to preventive 
and treatment measures. Specific goals are to:
•	 Reduce mortality due to pneumonia in children under age 5 
by 65% by 2015 compared with 2000 levels
•	 Reduce the incidence of severe pneumonia by 25% in 
children under age 5 by 2015 compared with 2000 levels
Three targets are to be reached by the end of 2015:
•	 90% coverage of each relevant vaccine (with 80% coverage 
in every district)
•	 90% access to appropriate pneumonia case management
•	 90% coverage of exclusive breastfeeding during the first six 
months of life
Technical consensus statement
In the context of child survival strategies, countries should 
address pneumonia control. The key strategies for treating, 
preventing and protecting from pneumonia are:
•	 Case management at all levels
•	 Vaccination
•	 Prevention and management of HIV infection
•	 Improvement of nutrition and reduction of low birthweight
•	 Control of indoor air pollution
Five interventions could more than halve pneumonia mortality 
and morbidity:
•	 Adopting effective case management at the community 
and health facility levels. Countries with a high under-five 
mortality rate should adopt plans to expand adequate case 
management of pneumonia at the hospital, health facility 
and community levels to achieve 90% coverage within a 
predetermined timeframe
•	 Achieving Global Immunization Vision and Strategy targets 
for vaccines against measles and pertussis. Countries that 
have not yet done so, especially high-mortality countries, 
should introduce PCV and Hib vaccine into their national 
immunization programmes
•	 Promoting exclusive breastfeeding and zinc supplementation. 
These strategies reduce rates of low birthweight and 
undernutrition, which helps prevent pneumonia
•	 Reducing indoor air pollution. New technologies can reduce 
indoor air pollution, which may prevent pneumonia, and 
additional research is needed to demonstrate the health 
benefits of these interventions
•	 Preventing mother-to-child transmission of HIV, improving 
management of HIV infection and increasing use of P. jiroveci 
pneumonia prophylaxis. These interventions are important 
in countries with HIV prevalence
Other preventive strategies, such as encouraging handwashing, 
should also be promoted.
Pneumonia is a common and serious consequence of 
pandemic influenza. Preparedness for pandemic influenza 
should include prevention and control of pneumonia and adds 
urgency to community case management.
1.2.  Diarrhoea: Why Children Are Dying and What Can 
Be Done
This report lays out a seven-point action plan for comprehensive 
diarrhoea control.
Treatment 
The treatment package focuses on two main elements:
•	 Fluid replacement to prevent dehydration
•	 Zinc treatment
Oral rehydration therapy is the cornerstone of fluid 
replacement. New elements of this approach include 
low-osmolarity ORS, which is more effective at replacing fluids 
than previous ORS formulations, and zinc treatment, which 
decreases diarrhoea severity and duration. Other important 
components are continued feeding, including breastfeeding, 
during the diarrhoea episode and use of appropriate fluids 
available in the home if ORS are not available.
Prevention package
The prevention package focuses on five main elements to 
reduce diarrhoea in the medium to long term:
•	 Increasing coverage of rotavirus and measles vaccines
•	 Promoting early and exclusive breastfeeding and vitamin A 
supplementation
•	 Promoting handwashing with soap
39
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
•	 Improving water supply quantity and quality, including 
treatment and safe storage of household water
•	 Promoting community-wide sanitation
New aspects of this approach include rotavirus vaccination, 
which was recently recommended for global introduction into 
national vaccination programmes, and approaches to increase 
demand to stop open defecation, which have proven more 
effective than previous strategies.
Implementation of the prevention package must be 
approached in a concerted way, because single interventions 
alone are likely to have lesser overall impact. For example, 
diarrhoea caused by rotavirus cannot be prevented solely by 
improvements in water and sanitation, and rotavirus vaccine 
does not prevent other pathogens (such as E. coli and Shigella) 
from causing diarrhoea. The package should be accompanied 
by clear, targeted and integrated behaviour and social change 
communication strategies to improve uptake by families and 
communities.
40
Annex 2.  Key actions for selected interventions
2.1.  Universal access to safe drinking-water, hygienic 
sanitation and handwashing facilities
Initial implementation plan
Providing safe, reliable, piped-in water and safe sanitation 
to every household is the ultimate goal of global efforts 
and would yield optimal health gains while contributing to 
the MDG targets for poverty reduction, nutrition, childhood 
survival, school attendance, gender equity and environmental 
sustainability.3 Four WASH interventions—increased access 
to water, improved drinking-water safety, adequate sanitation 
and handwashing with soap—have been shown to be effective 
in significantly reducing the incidence of diarrhoeal disease.4 
These are highlighted as proven prevention interventions in 
the 7-point strategy for comprehensive diarrhoea control, 
adopted by UNICEF and WHO in 2009.5
Achieving meaningful health gains from water, sanitation and 
hygiene interventions requires scaling up to those populations 
most at risk. Such scaling up depends, in large part, on national 
enabling environments and policies which recognize and 
clearly define the roles of ministries (health, water, education, 
commerce). In addition, engaging key stakeholders, including 
international organizations, academia, donors, private sector, 
and NGOs is important for ensuring coordinated funding, 
action and assessment.
 
Key activities 
Establish national action plan and targets for access to safe 
drinking-water, sanitation and hygiene
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Coordinate with health, water, sanitation and hygiene actors 
in prioritizing provision of services with a key objective of 
reducing pneumonia and diarrhoeal disease (e.g. with 
common/shared indicators, budgets, strategies)
•	 Strengthen institutional capacity at all levels (i.e. performance 
monitoring and risk assessments)
•	 Consider creating one common WASH fund
•	 Mobilize resources (grants, carbon credits, private sector)
•	 Establish monitoring and evaluation mechanisms to assess 
progress in improving WASH and reducing childhood 
pneumonia and diarrhoea
•	 Develop norms and standards to guide implementation
3	
 Prüss-Üstün, Bonjour & Corvalán, 2008
4	
 Fewtrell et al., 2005; Clasen et al., 2007; Waddington et al., 2009
5	
 UNICEF/WHO (2009). Diarrrhoea: why children are still dying and what 
can be done. New York, NY, USA, United Nations Children’s Fund; Geneva, 
Switzerland, World Health Organization (http://www.who.int/maternal_child_
adolescent/documents/9789241598415/en/index.html).
Implementation level
•	 Promote a comprehensive package of interventions to 
prevent and treat diarrhoea and pneumonia, including 
preventive 
WASH 
practices, 
zinc, 
ORS, 
exclusive 
breastfeeding and vaccines
Ensure availability of trained human resources and key 
commodities required to achieve targets
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Assess availability of water and sanitation technologies; 
consider 
reducing/eliminating 
tariffs 
on 
imported 
technologies
•	 Ensure products meet international and national standards 
(i.e. household water treatment should meet WHO 
performance targets)
•	 Work with private sector in developing an efficient supply 
chain
Implementation level
•	 Ensure access to safe drinking-water, handwashing facilities 
and sanitation in all health care facilities by prioritizing 
services to such facilities. Consider construction of “tippy 
taps” or handwashing devices that can be made using a 5 
litre or 1.5 gallon plastic container that allows for running 
water without hand contact 6 
•	 Integrate promotion of key WASH practices (handwashing 
with soap at critical times; treatment, safe storage and 
handling of water; and safe faeces disposal) as part of 
antenatal, postnatal and nutrition counselling; HIV/AIDS 
treatment and care; and child care visits
•	 Train CHWs and volunteers to promote WASH practices 
and, where appropriate, disseminate WASH products (e.g. 
soap, water treatment products, etc.) as incentives to seek 
health services 
•	 Link community members with organizations in the WASH 
sector that are active in national sanitation initiatives; 
work with the private sector to support access to low-cost 
sanitation products (e.g. in kiosks near the health centre 
that sell ORS, water treatment products, soap, safe storage 
containers, etc.)
6	
 http://www.tippytap.org/build-a-tippy-tap-manual
41
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Assess progress in achieving targets and modify programme 
delivery as needed
Policy/decision-making level
•	Explore the extent to which the health sector can leverage 
its community-level reach to collect WASH sector 
monitoring information (i.e. access to safe drinking-water 
and sanitation, treatment and safe storage of drinking-
water in the home, handwashing with soap, hygienic 
handling and preparation of foods)
•	Priority commodities: soap, household water treatment 
products (chlorine, filters, coagulant/flocculant), safe 
storage containers, bore well digging equipment, water 
pumps (both hand and mechanical), latrine slabs, cement 
for tanks
Examples of milestones
•	% increase in access to safe drinking-water, sanitation 
and handwashing facilities in all health care facilities and 
schools (especially those in rural areas)
•	% of policies and % of programmes which have integrated 
WASH into key activities (maternal and child health, 
nutrition, HIV/AIDS)
•	% increase in uptake of health services where WASH 
has been integrated into programmes and facilities are 
available
•	% reduction in childhood diarrhoea and pneumonia
42
2.2.  90% coverage of each relevant vaccine (with 80% 
coverage in every district)
Initial implementation plan
The Global Vaccine Action Plan (http://apps.who.int/gb/
ebwha/pdf_files/WHA65/A65_22-en.pdf) sets out the guiding 
principles and strategic objectives for achieving the goals of the 
Decade of Vaccines. Country, regional and global stakeholders 
need to take responsibility for specific actions, translate the 
action plan into detailed operational plans, complete the 
development of an accountability framework for the Decade 
of Vaccines and mobilize resources. The key activities below 
should ensure increased and sustained coverage of traditional 
childhood vaccines and appropriate introduction of new ones.
Key activities
Commit to immunization as a priority, with routine immunization 
as a platform
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Establish and sustain commitment to immunization
Ensure legislation or legal framework
Develop comprehensive national immunization plan as 
part of overall national health plan
Set country-specific targets
•	 Strengthen national capacity to formulate evidence-based 
policies
Create or strengthen existing, independent bodies that 
formulate national immunization policies
Implementation level
•	 Inform and engage opinion leaders on the value of 
immunization
•	 Scrutinize, defend and follow closely immunization budgets, 
disbursements and activities
•	 Support local civil society organizations and professional 
associations to contribute to national discussions on 
immunization
Individual and communities understand the value of vaccines 
and demand immunization as both their right and responsibility
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Create incentives to stimulate demand and improve 
caregiver knowledge, attitudes and practices
Create incentives for households and health workers in 
favour of immunization
Conduct social research to improve the delivery of 
immunization services and the ability to meet the needs 
of diverse communities
Identify reasons for vaccine hesitancy and take steps 
to increase community confidence and demand for 
immunization
Implementation level
•	 Build advocacy capacity
Recruit new voices, including those of educators, religious 
leaders, traditional and social media personalities, family 
physicians, CHWs, and trained immunization champions 
(among others)
Train health workers in effective communication 
techniques, especially to address vaccine hesitancy and 
to respond to reports of serious adverse events following 
immunization
Engage, enable and support in-country civil society 
organizations to advocate the value of vaccines to local 
communities and policy-makers and local and global 
media.
Create national advocacy plans that involve in-country 
civil society organizations
•	 Link advocacy efforts with professional, academic and media 
networks
•	 Engage individuals and communities on the benefits of 
immunization and hear their concerns
Utilize social media tools and lessons learnt from 
commercial and social marketing efforts
Include immunization in the basic education curriculum
Conduct communications research
Benefits of immunization are equitably extended to all people
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Develop and implement new strategies to tackle inequities
Recast “Reaching Every District” to “Reaching Every 
Community” (ensuring that all five components are 
included and equally emphasized and implemented) in 
order to deal with inequities within districts
Engage underserved and marginalized groups to 
develop locally tailored, targeted strategies for reducing 
inequities
Introduce appropriate new vaccines into national 
immunization programmes
Prevent and respond to vaccine-preventable diseases 
during disease outbreaks and humanitarian crises, and 
in conflict zones
Implementation level
•	 Build knowledge base and capacity for enabling equitable 
delivery
Track each individual’s immunization status, leveraging 
immunization registries, electronic databases and 
national identification number systems
Take advantage of community structures to enhance 
communication and deliver services (for example, 
traditional birth attendants, birth registries)
Involve civil society organizations in community outreach 
and planning
Develop new approaches to community engagement for 
urban and peri-urban areas
43
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Train health workers and civil society organizations in 
engaging communities; in identifying influential people 
who can assist in planning, organizing and monitoring 
health and immunization programmes, as well as 
community needs; and in working with communities to 
meet those needs
Conduct operational and social science research to 
identify successful strategies to reduce inequities and 
improve the quality and delivery of immunization services
Strong immunization systems are an integral part of a well-
functioning health system
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Develop comprehensive and coordinated approaches
Ensure that global vaccine programmes focusing 
on eradication and elimination goals (for example, 
poliomyelitis and measles campaigns) are incorporated 
into national immunization programmes and do not 
operate independently
Ensure that new vaccine deployment is accompanied by 
comprehensive plans to control targeted diseases
Ensure coordination between the public and private 
sectors for new vaccine introduction, reporting of 
vaccine-preventable diseases and administration of 
vaccines, and ensure quality of vaccination in the public 
and private sectors
Consider the inclusion of vaccines (as appropriate to 
national priorities) in health programmes across the life-
course
Implementation level
•	 Strengthen monitoring and surveillance systems
Improve the quality of all administrative data concerning 
immunization and promote its analysis and use at all 
administrative levels to improve programme performance
Develop and promote the use of new technologies for 
collection, transmission and analysis of immunization 
data
Further strengthen and expand disease surveillance 
systems to generate information for decision-making, 
monitoring the impact of immunization on morbidity and 
mortality and changes in disease epidemiology
Ensure capacity for vaccine safety activities, including 
capacity to collect and interpret safety data, with 
enhanced capacity in countries that introduce newly 
developed vaccines
•	 Strengthen capacity of managers and front-line workers
Ensure that immunization and other PHC programmes 
have adequate human resources to schedule and deliver 
predictable services of acceptable quality
Increase levels of pre-service, in-service and post-service 
training for human resources, and develop new, relevant 
curricula that approach immunization as a component of 
comprehensive disease control
Promote coordinated training and supervision of 
community-based health workers
•	 Strengthen infrastructure and logistics
Innovate to improve cold-chain capacity and logistics, as 
well as waste management
Minimize the environmental impact of energy, materials 
and processes used in immunization supply systems, 
both within countries and globally
Staff supply systems with adequate numbers of 
competent, motivated and empowered personnel at all 
levels
Establish information systems that help staff to track the 
available supply accurately
Immunization programmes have sustainable access to long-
term funding and quality supply
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Increase total amount of funding
Establish 
government 
commitment 
to 
invest 
in 
immunization according to its ability to pay and the 
expected benefits
Engage new potential domestic and development 
partners and diversify sources of funding
•	 Improve allocation of funding 
Strengthen budgeting and financial management to 
better integrate financial and health care planning and 
priority setting
Coordinate funding support from development partners 
and other external sources
Promote the use of cost and cost-benefit arguments 
in fund raising, decision-making, and in defence of 
immunization funding
Explore pay-for-performance funding systems
Implementation level
•	 Secure quality supply
Strengthen national regulatory systems
Research and development innovations to maximize the 
benefits of immunization
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Improve programme efficiencies and increase coverage and 
impact
Research the use of more effective information through 
modern communication technologies
Priority commodities: vaccines and related commodities, 
training and communication materials
Examples of milestones
•	 Reach 90% national coverage and 80% in every district or 
equivalent administrative unit for all relevant vaccines in 
national programmes, unless otherwise recommended
44
•	 Introduction of relevant new or underutilized vaccines in 
low- and middle-income countries
•	 Presence of a legal framework or legislation that guarantees 
immunization financing
•	 Presence of an independent technical advisory group that 
meets defined criteria
•	 Drop-out rate between first dose of DTP3-containing vaccine 
and first dose of measles-containing vaccine
45
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
2.3.  At least 50% coverage of exclusive breastfeeding 
during the first six months of life (target from plan 
adopted by WHA, 2012)
Initial implementation plan
 A national strategy on infant and young child feeding, based on 
the Global strategy for infant and young child feeding (http://
whqlibdoc.who.int/publications/2003/9241562218.pdf), 
provides a framework for action to protect, promote and support 
appropriate feeding, including exclusive breastfeeding. The 
Planning guide for national implementation (http://whqlibdoc.
who.int/publications/2007/9789241595193_eng.pdf) provides 
guidance on the actions to be taken to develop or revise 
this strategy. The UNICEF Programming guide on infant and 
young child feeding also provides guidance on how to design, 
plan and implement a comprehensive strategy (http://www.
unicef.org/nutrition/files/Final_IYCF_programming_guide_
June_2012.pdf).
The key activities below are most relevant to exclusive 
breastfeeding, but will help to improve infant and young child 
feeding in general. They should be part of the overall national 
strategy. 
 
Key activities
Take measures to adopt and implement a national code of 
marketing of breast-milk substitutes (or review and update 
existing code)
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Raise awareness of the Code and the need for effective 
implementation at the national level among key policy-
makers, manufacturers and the public
•	 Draft national code regulations, including all provisions of the 
International Code of marketing of breast-milk substitutes 
(http://whqlibdoc.who.int/publications/9241541601.
pdf) and subsequent World Health Assembly resolutions 
(WHA33.32, WHA34.22, WHA35.26, WHA37.30, WHO39.28, 
WHA41.11, WHA43.3, WHA45.34, WHA46.7, WHA49.15, 
WHA54.2, “HA55.25 at http://www.who.int/governance/en), 
with effective monitoring, implementation and enforcement 
provisions
•	 Circulate draft national code for comment
•	 Finalize the national code regulations through legal 
processes
Implementation level
•	 Educate health workers and others on their responsibilities 
under the code, including ensuring that government offices 
have guidance for staff on interactions with infant formula 
manufacturers
•	 Monitor implementation, ensuring that this is done in a 
transparent, independent manner, free from commercial 
influence
•	 Promote and enforce code compliance
Enact legislation to protect the breastfeeding rights of working 
women 
Policy/decision-making level (see International Labour 
Organization Maternity protection resource package 
(http://mprp.itcilo.org/pages/en/index.html)
•	 Take steps to ratify the International Labour Organization 
Maternity protection convention No. 183 (http://www.ilo.
org/dyn/normlex/en/f?p=1000:12100:0::NO::P12100_ILO_
CODE:C183)
•	 Assess the situation of working women in regards to 
facilitating breastfeeding
•	 Begin development and adoption of legislation in line with 
the convention
Build consensus on draft legislation
Finalize draft
Adopt country legislation
•	 Publicize 
legislation, 
especially 
informing 
relevant 
stakeholders and the public
•	 Monitor situation 
Implementation level
•	 Raise awareness of legislation among health and other 
workers
•	 Monitor local implementation, provide reports to other 
levels
Revitalize and expand the Baby-friendly Hospital Initiative (BFHI) 
(http://www.who.int/nutrition/publications/infantfeeding 
/9789241594950/en/index.html)
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Assess the status of BFHI in the country
Existence of coordinator and/or working group
Existence of targets
Proportion of hospitals having achieved baby-friendly 
status
•	 Monitor quality in certified hospitals
•	 Promote the concept to other hospitals and sustain levels in 
certified hospitals
•	 Carry out further assessments, reassessments and monitoring
•	 Ensure that BFHI is a part of all hospital standards
Implementation level
•	 Ensure training of health workers and administrators
Improve the skills of health providers in first and referral-level 
health facilities to give adequate feeding support
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Update/upgrade the curricula and materials for pre-service 
education
46
Implementation level
•	 Assess levels of skills and knowledge, and needs for 
improvement
•	 Assess training carried out, such as by type of course (e.g. 
http://www.who.int/nutrition/publications/infantfeeding/ 
9789241504812/en/index.html)
Number and type of staff trained
Distribution of trained staff geographically and by heath 
facility
Quality of training
•	 Assess remaining training needs
•	 Analyse how to meet needs given resource constraints
•	 Train staff, including using e-learning tools where available
•	 Develop and use quality job aids
•	 Provide skills-oriented supportive supervision
Strengthen community-based support for breastfeeding
Implementation level
•	 Identify community-based decision-makers and groups
•	 Motivate groups for action
•	 Conduct assessments and formative research
•	 Build capacity of groups and peer counsellors
•	 Plan and implement communication strategy
•	 Provide on-going support to community action through 
health and community services, community-based groups 
and other mechanisms
Priority commodities: training materials, communication 
materials
Examples of milestones:
•	 Existence of national code of marketing of breast-milk 
substitutes with legal framework for implementation
•	 Ratification of Maternity convention No. 183
•	 Increased proportion of baby-friendly health facilities
•	 At least one health worker trained in breastfeeding/infant 
and young child feeding in each facility offering maternal-
child health services
•	 Communication strategy to promote exclusive breastfeeding 
developed and implemented
47
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
2.4.  90% access to appropriate pneumonia and 
diarrhoea case management (with 80% coverage 
in every district)
Initial implementation plan
 To ensure high access (social, cultural, financial and geographic) 
to good quality pneumonia and diarrhoea case management, 
health services must endeavour to be available around the clock, 
every day, as well as being flexible and adaptable to changing 
contexts, such as emergencies or outbreaks of diseases. 
For these services to be available, training, supervision and 
motivation must be regularly provided. Health workers who 
are able to give such services should be available in virtually 
all health facilities, and services must extend into communities 
without facilities. Where access to health facilities is low, well-
trained, supervised and supported CHWs can appropriately 
diagnose childhood pneumonia and diarrhoea and provide 
effective treatment. The approach of having CHWs where the 
situation warrants it increases the total numbers of children 
receiving appropriate treatment when they need it, rather than 
just changing the place where they get treatment.
While this section deals with pneumonia and diarrhoea, 
obviously efforts need to build on existing strategies and 
initiatives, target areas at highest risk and be closely linked 
with other on-going relevant programmes, such as for malaria 
and nutrition and/or IMCI.
Key activities
Carry out a situation analysis with regards to case management 
of pneumonia and diarrhoea 7
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Assign responsibility for carrying out the situation analysis 
and the time frame in which it is required 
•	 Assemble available data on, e.g., existing policies around 
pneumonia and diarrhoea case management; epidemiology 
of pneumonia and diarrhoea in the country and by sub-
national level/populations; coverage/access to services 
(including through the private sector); health workers trained 
and location; number and distribution of community-level 
workers and their training; supply and procurement issues; 
care seeking; demand creation efforts; special situations, e.g. 
fragile contexts, emergencies and displaced populations
•	 Collect additional information, as required
•	 Prepare a report and ask for inputs from stakeholders, 
including related programmes/sectors
•	 Disseminate the results among stakeholders and managers
•	 Use the results of the situation analysis to guide actions
7	
See Core Group et al. Community Case Management Essentials: Treating 
Common Childhood Illnesses in the Community: a guide for programme 
managers. Washington DC, USAID, 2010 for suggestions on carrying out a 
situation analysis on iCCM (link).
Implementation level
•	 Disseminate the relevant findings of the situation analysis 
among health workers, local NGOs and other stakeholders
•	 If necessary, take measures to ensure that national policies, 
guidelines and laws on treatment of pneumonia and 
diarrhoea within health facilities and in communities facilitate 
access to appropriate treatment to children most at risk of 
morbidity and mortality from these diseases. 
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Based on the situation analysis, organize or empower an 
existing task force to further review/revise existing policies/
guidelines/legislation related to case management of 
pneumonia and diarrhoea (and other diseases/conditions, 
as appropriate, such as cholera) 
•	 Build resilience into existing systems and services so they 
are flexible and adaptable to changes in context such as 
emergencies, changes in climate and outbreaks 
•	 Build on activities of other related programmes/sectors to 
extend access
•	 Raise awareness of IMCI and iCCM and the need for 
effective implementation at the national level among key 
policy-makers and stakeholders
•	 Propose to enact revised policy/legislation to ensure access 
to appropriate care at referral level, in other health facilities 
and communities
•	 Review implementation of policies at appropriate intervals, 
and propose measures to enforce/facilitate implementation 
as needed.
Implementation level 
•	 Raise awareness on current/new policy and legislation on 
iCCM among health workers/local NGOs 
Ensure availability of trained health and/or community 
workers to manage pneumonia and diarrhoea in children 
in development and in fragile settings, emergencies and 
outbreaks 
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Assess levels of skills and knowledge, and needs for 
improvement
•	 Assess training carried out, such as by type of course
Number and type of staff and other workers trained
Distribution of trained staff geographically and by health 
facility
Quality of training
•	 Assess remaining training needs
•	 Develop/review a national costed training plan for increasing 
the number and quality of health and community workers, 
including at referral level, in pneumonia and diarrhoea case 
management (building on strategies for other diseases/
conditions, as appropriate)
48
•	 Update/upgrade the curricula and materials for pre-service 
education
•	 Allocate/mobilize resources to implement the plan
•	 Monitor overall numbers/distribution of workers trained
•	 Revise/update the plan as required
 
Implementation level 
•	 Improve the skills of health care providers to deliver 
appropriate case management in health facilities and the 
community
•	 Improve the skills of health care providers to adapt their 
existing service delivery to changes in context, such as 
emergencies or outbreaks (e.g. cholera) 
•	 Analyse how to meet needs given resource constraints
•	 Train staff on case management and related issues, including 
promoting breastfeeding, adequate nutrition, immunization 
and 
handwashing, 
and 
strengthening 
counselling/
communication skills
•	 Enhance training using innovative e-learning materials
•	 Develop and use quality job aids
•	 Provide skills-oriented supportive supervision
•	 Monitor and evaluate training to ensure quality
•	 Carry out follow-up after training
•	 Review/revise supervision guidelines
•	 Supervise regularly
 
Ensure 
supplies/commodities 
are 
in 
place 
for 
case 
management at all levels, including referral levels, and 
stockpiled where appropriate
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Review/update policy/legislation related to supplies/
commodities 
for 
case 
management, 
focusing 
on 
appropriateness of commodities for management of 
pneumonia and diarrhoea (e.g. are low-osmolarity ORS and 
zinc used?)
•	 Review/update procedures for quantification/procurement/
distribution of supplies/commodities related to pneumonia and 
diarrhoea from central to implementation to community level
•	 Define technical specifications for commodities, for example, 
dispersible, in blisters, individual rapid diagnostic kits for 
malaria (to know if pneumonia treatment is necessary), etc.
•	 Quantify needs 
•	 Identify bottle-necks and take measures to resolve them
Implementation levels
•	 Set up systems to supervise and monitor availability of 
supplies at facility/community level
•	 Identify bottle-necks at district/local levels and take 
measures to resolve them
•	 As needed, train/re-train supply officers
•	 Train CHWs and other relevant community-level workers in 
medicine management
Foster and strengthen care seeking/demand for pneumonia 
and diarrhoea case management and increase community 
knowledge/action related to preventive measures
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Use information from the situation analysis to assess 
levels of care seeking for pneumonia and diarrhoea case 
management and use/practice of preventive interventions 
to assess where/what type of action is needed
•	 Liaise with other entities responsible for pneumonia/
diarrhoea preventive activities, such as water and sanitation 
and groups occupied with emergencies and outbreaks, to 
ensure coordinated approaches 
•	 Develop/review national communication strategy for 
pneumonia and diarrhoea, including reaching the private 
sector 
•	 As needed, carry out national level formative research on 
pneumonia and diarrhoea 
•	 Develop generic communication messages/materials
Implementation levels
•	 Identify community-based decision-makers and groups
•	 Motivate groups for action
•	 Conduct local assessments and formative research
•	 Build capacity of community-based groups, peer counsellors 
and community leaders
•	 Develop local communication strategy, based on any 
national efforts
•	 Develop/adapt messages/materials
•	 Community meetings of mothers and male members of the 
community
•	 Educate mothers to recognize signs of illness for prompt 
care seeking
•	 Periodically assess implementation/impact of communication 
efforts
Monitor progress on making treatment universally available
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Assess the national health management information system 
to ensure relevant information related to access, coverage 
and quality of treatment of pneumonia and diarrhoea are 
captured
•	 Ensure key monitoring activities at various levels are included 
in national plan and carried out as scheduled
49
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Implementation levels
•	 Carry out planned monitoring/evaluation activities
•	 Ensure community-level data are captured, analysed and 
used for planning and decision-making at district, facility 
and community level.
Priority commodities: training materials, communication 
materials, low-osmolarity ORS, zinc, oral amoxicillin
Examples of milestones
•	 Existence of facilitating national policy environment for 
increasing access to prevention interventions and case 
management, e.g. soap for handwashing and household 
water treatment methods and safe storage, provision for use 
of zinc for diarrhoea and antibiotics for pneumonia by CHWs
•	 At least two health workers trained in case management of 
pneumonia and diarrhoea case management in each facility 
offering maternal-child health services
•	 Proportion of villages with community-level workers trained 
on case management of pneumonia and diarrhoea
•	 Proportion of villages without stock of essential medicines 
for treatment of pneumonia and diarrhoea
•	 Communication strategy developed and implemented 
to increase demand for pneumonia and diarrhoea case 
management in place
•	 Incentives to seek treatment including provision of other 
services and interventions (i.e. household water treatment, 
bednets, etc.) along with removal of financial barriers 
50
2.5.  Virtual elimination of paediatric HIV 8, 9
Initial implementation plan
There is an unprecedented global commitment to accelerate 
the prevention of mother-to-child HIV transmission (PMTCT) 
with the goal of eliminating paediatric HIV by 2015. The 
Global plan towards the elimination of new HIV infections 
among children by 2015 and keeping mothers alive (http://
www.unaids.org/en/media/unaids/contentassets/documents/
unaidspublication/2011/20110609_JC2137_Global-Plan-
Elimination-HIV-Children_en.pdf) focuses on women living 
with HIV and their children from pregnancy until the mother 
stops breastfeeding. Although scientific and programmatic 
evidence demonstrates that PMTCT interventions can 
reduce the risk of HIV transmission from mother-to-child 
to less than 5% in developing country settings, coverage of 
these interventions is still far too low and based largely on 
less effective antiretroviral regimens. The goal of the action 
framework is to galvanize and harmonize the support of 
donors, development and implementing partners, national 
governments and civil society to the implementation of the 
MTCT elimination (eMTCT) agenda. 
The objectives of eMTCT are to:
•	 Keep the momentum on eMTCT as a priority component of 
global efforts to reaching MDGs 4, 5 and 6
•	 Provide a framework to set goals and targets, track progress 
and monitor performance at global, national and sub-
national levels 
•	 Foster prioritization of evidence-informed solutions to 
overcoming bottlenecks to progress 
•	 Mobilize and leverage partners and resources for country 
level action
The Global plan provides an operational framework from 
which global partners, national governments, policy-makers, 
programme managers and implementing partners can draw 
to develop their own eMTCT goals and roadmap.
Key activities
Keep the momentum on eMTCT as a critical priority for 
reaching MDGs 4, 5 and 6
 Policy/decision-making level
•	 Identify local decision-makers, professional bodies, media 
audiences and civil society to be engaged to commit to the 
goal of eMTCT 
8	
Defined as reduction of new paediatric HIV infections by 90% from the 2009 
estimated baseline and reduction in the overall, population-based HIV 
transmission rate through mother-to-child transmission to <5% (<2% in the 
absence of breastfeeding or as measured at 6 weeks).
9	
Adapted from: A global action framework for the elimination of mother-to- 
child transmission of HIV and the Global monitoring framework and strategy 
for the global plan towards the elimination of new HIV infections among 
children by 2015 and keeping their mothers alive (eMTCT). 
•	 Mobilize in-country donors and ministries of health and 
finance to allocate necessary resources - both human and 
financial - to deliver on the eMTCT commitment
Implementation level
•	 Draw attention to bottle-necks and scaling-up successes, 
and work with stakeholders, such as people living with HIV, 
health workers and implementing partners to overcome 
barriers to access or to quality results
Set goals and targets, and track progress 
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Establish realistic goals and targets
•	 Ensure monitoring mechanisms are in place
Implementation level
•	 Disseminate goals and targets among health workers and 
local stakeholders
•	 Record and report relevant data
Foster prioritization of evidence-informed solutions to 
overcoming bottle-necks to progress 
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Identify bottle-necks and prioritize strategies to overcome 
them 
•	 Define strategic implementation areas for focused country-
level action to overcome bottle-necks 
•	 Adapt PMTCT programmatic approaches to the performance 
of the mother-child health platform 
•	 Improve the quality of service delivery by addressing human 
resources for health, especially task shifting and sharing 
•	 Assess supply requirements and system functionality linked 
to programme performance
•	 Adapt evidence-based international guidelines on PMTCT 
and HIV and infant feeding to the local context
•	 Establish training requirements for health staff and other 
workers 
Implementation level
•	 Ensure that promotion of key WASH practices is included in 
PMTCT 
•	 Improve communication and community-based approaches, 
including community involvement to promote increased 
demand, utilization and follow-up support for services
•	 Train staff in PMTCT issues 
51
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Mobilize and leverage partners and resources to support 
country level implementation 
Policy/decision-making level
•	 Conduct mapping of available resources and define the 
gap that needs to be filled to help address the bottlenecks 
that impede implementation and progress 
•	 Promote and support strategic orientation to planning, 
taking into consideration the need for PMTCT to be linked 
and integrated into broader mother-child health responses 
•	 Develop and implement resource leveraging strategies to 
help address the bottlenecks and gaps that are impeding 
implementation
•	 Promote and facilitate investors’ participation in all 
key steps– International partner representation and 
participation should be encouraged in various planning, 
coordination and review processes at national level 
•	 Develop a framework and strategies for effective 
communication 
and 
coordination 
among 
all 
key 
stakeholders
Implementation level
•	 Work with local stakeholders to mobilize resources locally
•	 Review mother-child health activities to see where 
efficiencies can improve performance on PMTCT with little 
extra cost
Priority commodities: HIV test kits, ARVs, training materials, 
communication materials
Examples of milestones:
•	 % increase in resources available for eMTCT
•	 At least one health worker trained in eMTCT in each facility 
offering maternal-child health services
•	 Communication strategy to create demand for services 
developed and implemented
2.6.  Alleviate excess mortality and morbidity from 
pneumonia and diarrhoea during humanitarian 
emergencies
Initial implementation plan
Crises from a variety of hazards including conflict, floods, 
earthquakes and epidemics are on the rise due to 
vulnerabilities such as climate change, food shortages and 
rapid and unplanned urbanization. Practically all regions 
of the world are affected. Countries that are fragile or 
experiencing conflict generally have extremely high under-
five mortality rates in comparison to more stable settings
Crisis settings increase the likelihood of excess morbidity 
and mortality from common illnesses such as pneumonia and 
diarrhoea and increase the risk of epidemics and malnutrition. 
This is due to destroyed or disrupted protection, prevention 
and treatment programmes; lack of access to essential services 
such as food, water, sanitation and shelter; and population 
movements and crowding. 
 
Priority life-saving measures outlined in this document for 
pneumonia and diarrhoea must continue and be targeted to 
affected populations. The actual interventions do not change 
significantly, but they should be prioritized and delivered in 
innovative ways to reach affected communities. 
Key activities
Address governance, advocacy and policy
Policy/decision-making level 
•	 National policies and plans for child survival should address 
emergency risks (based on an assessment) to pneumonia 
and diarrhoea services and outline capacity needs to make 
these programmes resilient and able to respond to local 
threats (emergencies, climate change, outbreaks) 
•	 Health and disaster risk management sectors should work 
closely together to align strategies and policies to address 
the prevention and treatment of pneumonia and diarrhoea 
in different contexts through an integrated approach with 
other sectors and services
Implementation level
•	 Contribute local experience for the prevention and 
management of pneumonia and diarrhoea to national 
disaster planning
•	 Ensure local plans are kept up to date and include the 
prioritization and management of pneumonia and diarrhoea 
and possible outbreaks (i.e. cholera), and that they are able 
to respond to early warning systems 
Strengthening multi-sector working and coordination
Policy/decision-making level 
•	 Create collaborative mechanisms and coordinate efforts 
across sectors such as water and sanitation, shelter, nutrition 
and food security, education, protection, and livelihoods 
both before and after a disaster
Implementation level
•	 Create a local inter-sectoral disaster management team and 
involve all coordination mechanisms in health (development, 
emergency, outbreak) 
Human resources and supplies are in place to manage 
pneumonia and diarrhoea to reduce risk during emergencies 
Policy/decision-making level 
•	 Integrate into existing training programmes (IMCI, iCCM) 
capacity building to adjust to changing contexts (e.g. 
increasing cases of acute watery diarrhoea/cholera and how 
to deliver priority services during an emergency) 
52
•	 Increase and target services for the prevention and 
management of pneumonia and diarrhoea towards 
communities in fragile and at risk settings.
•	 Strengthen or implement disease surveillance and early 
warning systems to recognize and respond to outbreaks 
•	 Plan to ensure availability of contingency stocks of drugs and 
other supplies appropriate to the needs of children including 
antibiotics for pneumonia, ORS and zinc for diarrhoea and 
additional stocks for outbreaks such as cholera
•	 Ensure that health facilities are built safely and prepared to 
respond to the health needs of children in emergencies
Implementation level
•	 Provide services for pneumonia and diarrhoea at all levels 
of health care, including at peripheral health facilities, in the 
community and through mobile services where indicated 
•	 Ensure health workers and others involved follow standard 
guidelines and tools for pneumonia and diarrhoea case 
management (and management of cholera, where indicated)
•	 Empower communities and families by raising awareness of 
risks and actions to protect health from local hazards 
•	 Initiate programmes of health education and promotion at 
community and at health facility level, including through 
messages encouraging people to seek early care for fever, 
cough, diarrhoea, etc. 
•	 Identify and address barriers that impede access to health 
services 
Priority commodities: water treatment, soap for handwashing, 
sanitation hardware, zinc, ORS, antibiotics, vaccines, training 
and communication materials
Examples of milestones
•	 National policy inclusive of emergency risks and outbreaks 
and how they link to the management of pneumonia and 
diarrhoea through development programmes
•	 Proportion of population with access to improved water 
and sanitation supplies and to handwashing facilities which 
include soap and water
•	 Proportion of health workers or CHWs in areas at high risk 
for emergencies trained in standard treatment protocol for 
pneumonia and diarrhoea and how to adapt to a change in 
context, and where indicated trained in the management of 
epidemic-prone diseases such as cholera
•	 Stock outs of medicines for pneumonia and diarrhoea 
during emergencies 
•	 Diarrhoea incidence rate in affected populations
•	 Availability of supplies for case management
53
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
Annex 3.  Planning Framework for Coordinated Approaches for Pneumonia and 
Diarrhoea Control
The purpose of this Annex is to guide a working group 
responsible for taking action on pneumonia and diarrhoea 
control through a planning process, beginning with conducting 
a situation analysis. This process should facilitate coordination 
and collaboration between child health and other programmes 
and sectors.
The Steps in the process include:
1.	 Conduct a situation analysis
2.	 Identify the pneumonia and diarrhoea protection, 
prevention and control interventions that have been 
included in existing policies/strategies/plans, including for 
epidemic-prone diseases such as cholera
3.	 Identify the main problems pneumonia and diarrhoea 
control has faced
4.	 Analyse causes of problems and identify options for 
overcoming them
5.	 Formulate recommendations for coordinated actions and 
identify specific actions that need to be taken with clear 
responsibilities and time frame
6.	 Monitor and track progress in implementation of the 
actions identified
Step 1.  Conduct a situation analysis
1.	 Involve programme managers or other senior staff for 
child health, immunization, nutrition, HIV, health systems, 
water and sanitation, environmental health, emergencies 
and outbreaks, planning, and finance as well as relevant 
United Nations agencies, major NGOs, etc., in the 
situation analysis.
2.	 Refer to the following documents (in addition to the 
GAPPD) for background information on the problem: 
Global Action Plan for Prevention and control of 
Pneumonia (GAPP) – especially pages 1-7, and page 13.
Diarrhoea: Why children are still dying, and what can be 
done 
Pneumonia and diarrhoea: Tackling the deadliest 
diseases for the world’s poorest children. 
3.	 Gather together the most recent key country documents, 
such as:
DHS /MICS: recent reports
National health plan or strategy and budget
Comprehensive multi-year plan (cMYP) for immunization
National IMCI and/or child health/survival strategic plan
National nutrition/IYCF policy/strategy
National PMTCT strategic plan
MDG /Countdown Reports
WHO/UNICEF JMP report on access to water and 
sanitation
National WASH strategies (water quality, sanitation, etc.)
Poverty reduction strategic plans
Strategies and policies for emergencies and outbreaks 
including risk assessments 
4.	 Review epidemiology and burden of disease figures
Review morbidity and mortality status, focusing on trends, 
updates of new data, factors/strategies that explain the 
current situation, risks/challenges, new developments, 
etc. 
Review morbidity and mortality data from previous 
outbreaks such as cholera as well as information from the 
disease early warning and surveillance systems 
Disaggregate data by geography, socioeconomic status, 
gender and/or other relevant factors
5.	 Review the progress the country is making towards 
implementing the key interventions for maternal, neonatal 
and child survival as per the most recent data available 
(e.g. DHS). Review intervention coverage by: interventions 
to protect, interventions to prevent and interventions to 
treat
Is progress good for some interventions? Note key 
reasons why good progress is being made
Is progress poor for some interventions? What are the 
key bottlenecks/barriers?
Begin to identify key actions to improve the situation
6.	 Review national strategies in place to support 
implementation of diarrhoea and pneumonia 
interventions, including in high-risk/fragile contexts and 
emergencies
National strategy for IMCI /control of diarrhea and 
pneumonia, water, sanitation and hygiene in place?
National standards and norms for diarrhoea and 
pneumonia management available? 
When was the last update made on national norms and 
standards?
Does the management of diarrhoea include use of low-
osmolarity ORS and zinc?
Are zinc and household water treatment products 
included in the national essential medicines list?
Are national guidelines for the management of 
pneumonia and diarrhoea in the community available?
Are community health workers trained in iCCM and key 
WASH messages? 
Are there national guidelines for management of severe 
malnutrition in the community? 
54
7.	 Review the enabling policy environment
Is there a policy on community case management for: 
pneumonia, diarrhoea, malaria, malnutrition, neonatal 
conditions?
Is there a national strategic plan for: child survival or 
health, IMCI, nutrition/IYCF, EPI, safe drinking-water, 
sanitation, hygiene and clean air? 
Are national standards in place for drinking-water and 
sanitation facilities in health facilities and in homes?
Is there a budget line for drinking-water? Sanitation? 
Hygiene?
Is spending on water and sanitation reaching levels 
committed at international forums such as the eThekwini 
Declaration,10 Libreville Declaration? 11 
Within the policies are there considerations for 
emergencies and outbreaks? 
8.	 Review budget for child health and nutrition 
Is there a budget line and how much is the national 
budget for child health for the current fiscal year?
Is there a budget line and how much is the national 
budget for IMCI for the current fiscal year?
Is there a budget line and how much is the national 
budget for EPI for the current fiscal year?
Is there a budget line and how much is the national 
budget for nutrition for the current fiscal year?
What is the national budget for water, sanitation and 
hygiene provision?
List the main donors and additional donor funding that is 
received for each programme
9.	 Describe the organization of programmes in the MoH, 
and the linkages with other relevant sectors (look at 
organograms, describe existing relevant committees/
working groups) 
Review, summarize and analyse the information
Step 2.  Identify the pneumonia and diarrhoea protection, 
prevention and control interventions that have been 
included in existing policies/strategies/plans.
These strategies and plans may include: national child health/
child survival strategy, immunization policy/strategy/cMYP, 
nutrition strategy, malaria policy/strategy, water, sanitation 
and hygiene policy/strategy, environmental health strategy, 
PMTCT/HIV plan, etc. 
Step 2.1.  Review the interventions by: 
Interventions to Protect 
•	 Exclusive breastfeeding for 6 months
•	 Adequate complementary feeding
10	
 2008. eThekwini Declaration and AfriSan Action Plan. http://www.afrisan.org/
Pages/EthekwiniDecl.aspx
11	
 2011. Libreville Declaration on Health and the Environment in Africa. http://
www.afro.who.int/en/regional-declarations.html
•	 Vitamin A supplementation
Interventions to Prevent
•	 Measles vaccine
•	 Spn vaccine
•	 Hib vaccine
•	 Rotavirus vaccine
•	 Prevention of HIV in children
•	 Cotrimoxazole prophylaxis for HIV-infected and exposed 
children
•	 Treatment and safe storage of household water
•	 Promotion of handwashing with soap
•	 Community-wide sanitation promotion
•	 Reduce household air pollution
Interventions to Treat
•	 Improved care seeking and demand generation within 
communities
•	 Case management for pneumonia and diarrhoea at 
community and health facility levels
•	 Increasing access to appropriate care for pneumonia 
through CCM
•	 Increasing access to appropriate care for diarrhoea through 
CCM 
•	 Oral rehydration therapy (low-osmolarity ORS)
•	 Zinc treatment for children with diarrhoea
Step 2.2.  Summarize the interventions that are not included 
in existing plans or strategies and need to be included
Step 2.3.  Describe the coordination mechanisms in place to 
implement the interventions described above
Step 3.  Identify the main problems pneumonia and 
diarrhoea control has faced
The aim of this step is to identify interventions where more 
action is needed based on the situation analysis and also to 
identify the main problems affecting implementation. In doing 
so, describe the problems by major programmatic areas such as:
•	 Policy/strategy, plans and guidelines
•	 Planning, management, coordination and partnership
•	 Human resources
•	 Materials and financial resources
•	 Logistics and supply chain management for vaccines, 
medicines, equipment, consumables, etc.
•	 Access to services, including referral
•	 Quality of service delivery
•	 Communication and social mobilization
55
The Integrated Global Action Plan for the Prevention 
and Control of Pneumonia and Diarrhoea (GAPPD)
•	 Supervision, monitoring and evaluation
•	 Health information system
Step 4.  Analyse causes of problems and identify options 
for overcoming them
Step 5.  Formulate recommendations for coordinated 
actions and identify specific actions that need to be 
taken with clear responsibilities and time frame
These actions need to be reflected in existing plans of actions.
Step 6.  Monitor and track progress in implementation of 
the actions identified
Assess whether systems are in place to provide data to target 
and monitor the impact of interventions
56
Annex 4.  Terms of reference for national working group for pneumonia 
and diarrhoea prevention and control 
13
Purpose of working group 12
•	 The purpose of this working group is to ensure coordinated 
implementation of interventions for pneumonia and 
diarrhoea protection, prevention and control. 
Membership
•	 Relevant programme managers from MoH (or equivalent): 
mother and child health, community health, immunization, 
nutrition, health information, health systems, essential drugs, 
HIV, planning, water, sanitation and hygiene, air quality
•	 Relevant stakeholders from: Ministries of Water, Environment, 
Energy, Education, Planning, Finance
•	 Interested NGOs, professional groups, medical training 
institutions, private sector, mass media
•	 Relevant international organizations, e.g. WHO, UNICEF
•	 Key donors
Meetings
•	 Meetings will be held on the first Tuesday of each month, at 
a time and place to be announced by the chair.
12	
 This group could be an already-existing committee or sub-committee.
Responsibilities/outputs
•	 Carry out and periodically update situation analysis on 
pneumonia and diarrhoea protection, prevention and 
control
•	 Monitor implementation of national costed plan for 
pneumonia and diarrhoea protection, prevention and 
control, and periodically update, as necessary
•	 Periodically review data on pneumonia and diarrhoea 
morbidity and mortality and recommend appropriate action
•	 Periodically review data on coverage of recommended 
interventions and recommend appropriate action
•	 Periodically review new research evidence on interventions 
for pneumonia and diarrhoea prevention and control
•	 Increase awareness of pneumonia and diarrhoea as public 
health problems
•	 Advocate for resources for pneumonia and diarrhoea 
protection, prevention and control
•	 Arrange capacity building for committee members on 
relevant topics
For further information, please contact:
World Health Organization
Avenue Appia 20
1211 Geneva 27
Switzerland
Website: http://www.who.int/maternal_child_adolescent/en
United Nations Children’s Fund
3 UN Plaza
New York, N.Y. 10017
USA 
Website: http://www.unicef.org
