Copyrights © UNICEF Pakistan
Photo credits: UNICEF Pakistan
Design: Human Design Studios
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
4
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT	 	
	
	
	
	
	
   01
ACRONYMS	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   04
01
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY	 	
	
	
	
	
	
   08
1.1     Background		
	
	
	
	
	
   08
1.2     Purpose	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   08
1.3     Objectives	 	
	
	
	
	
	
   09
1.4     Methodology	
	
	
	
	
	
   09
1.5     Key Findings	
	
	
	
	
	
   09
1.6     Conclusion	 	
	
	
	
	
	
   10
1.7     Recommendations	 	
	
	
	
	
   11
1.7.1  Immediate Recommendations	
	
	
	
   11
1.7.2  Medium term Recommendations	
	
	
	
   11
1.7.3  Long term Recommendations	
	
	
	
   12
02
INTRODUCTION	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   16
2.1     Background		
	
	
	
	
	
   16
2.2     Country background	
	
	
	
	
   17
2.3     Purpose	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   17
2.4     Objectives	 	
	
	
	
	
	
   18
2.5     Scope of Evaluation	 	
	
	
	
	
   18
2.6     Intended audience	 	
	
	
	
	
   18
2.7     Study’s Contribution to the Theory of Change for	
	
   18
 Pneumonia and Diarrhea Project	
	
	
	
   
2.8     Researcher’s Introduction	
	
	
	
	
   19
03
METHODOLOGY		
	
	
	
	
	
	
   22
3.1     Phase I: Methodology for Desk review	
	
	
   22
3.2     Phase II: Methodology of Data Collection	
	
	
   23
3.2.1 Key Informants	
	
	
	
	
	
   24
3.2.2  Criteria for Selection of Districts	
	
	
	
   25
3.2.3  Public Health Facilities	
	
	
	
	
   26
3.2.4 Warehouses	
	
	
	
	
	
   26
3.2.5 Patient Exit Interviews	
	
	
	
	
   26
3.2.6 Private Hospitals and Pharmacies	
	
	
	
   26
3.2.7 Health Facilities & Warehouse Visited		
	
	
   26
Table of Contents
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
5
3.3        Phase III: Methodology for Analysis		
	
	
   26
3.4        Study Management	
	
	
	
	
   26
3.5        Study Limitations	 	
	
	
	
	
   26
3.6        Ethical Standards	 	
	
	
	
	
   27
04  
RESULTS AND ANALYSIS	
	
	
	
	
	
  30
4.1        Drug Registration Process for local production	
	
   34
4.2        Findings	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   36
4.2.1     Section I: Policy, Legislation and Regulation		
	
   36
4.2.2     Section II: Product Selection	
	
	
	
   36
4.2.3     Section III: Organization and Staffing	
	
	
   36
4.2.4     Section IV: Logistics management Information System (LMIS)  39
4.2.5     Section V: Forecasting	
	
	
	
	
   40
4.2.6     Section VI: Obtaining Supplies/Procurement	
	
   41
4.2.7     Section VII: Inventory Control	
	
	
  	
   42
4.2.8     Section VIII: Warehousing and Storage	
	
	
   46
4.2.9     Section IX: Transportation / Distribution	
	
	
   48
4.2.10   Section X: Organizational Support for Logistics system  	
   48
4.2.11   Section XI: Product use	
	
	
	
	
   49
4.2.12   Section XII: Patient Exit interviews	 	
	
	
   49
4.2.13   Section XIII: Private clinics and pharmacies	 	
	
   50
05
CONCLUSION	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   54
06
LESSONS LEARNED	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   58
07
RECOMMENDATIONS	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   62
7.1.1     Immediate Recommendations	
	
	
	
   62
7.1.2     Medium term Recommendations	 	
	
	
   63
7.1.3     Long term Recommendations	
	
	
	
   63
08
annexures	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
   67
09
references	 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 133
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
I would like to express my appreciation for the contribution and cooperation of all of those who 
were interviewed and whose health facilities were assessed. This Supply / Logistics Management 
System Assessment would not have been possible without the support of representatives of 
Federal Director General Health, Secretory Health Punjab and Sindh, Department of Health 
Balochistan, Department of Health FATA, Department of Health KP, Department of Health Sindh, 
Primary and Secondary Healthcare Department Punjab, Specialized Healthcare and Medical 
Education Department Punjab, Planning and Development Department Punjab and Sindh, Drug 
Regulatory Authority of Pakistan, Integrated Reproductive Maternal Newborn Child Health and 
Nutrition Program, Maternal, Newborn and Child Health, World Health Organization, USAID, 
John Snow Inc, Peoples Primary Health Care Initiative, Integrated Health Services , Health and 
Nutrition Development Society, Nutrition International, Pakistan Pharmaceutical Manufacturer’s 
Association, and stakeholders who participated in inception and dissemination. 
I would also like to thank UNICEF Pakistan for their guidance and support in developing this 
report. 
Fuad Hamid
Acronyms
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
4
ACRONYMS
AAT	
	
Award/Advance Acceptance of Tender 
ADR	
	
Adverse Drug Reaction
ARI	
	
Acute Respiratory Infection
BHU	
	
Basic Health Unit
CEO	
	
Chief Executive Officer
CPOES	 	
Computerized Physician Order Entry Software
DHIS	
	
District Health Information System
DHO	
	
District Health Officer
DHQ	
	
District Head Quarter Hospital
DDHO	
	
Deputy District Health Officer
DOH	
	
Department of Health
DOS	
	
Days of Stock-out
DRAP	
	
Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan
DT	
	
Dispersible Tablet
DTL	
	
Drug Testing Laboratory 
EDL	
	
Essential Drug List
EMA	
	
European Medicines Agency
EML	
	
Essential Medicines List
EPI	
	
Extended Program of Immunization
FATA	
	
Federally Administered Tribal Areas
FP	
	
Family Planning 
FP&PHS		
Family Planning and Primary Healthcare Services
GAPPD	 	
Global Action Plan for Pneumonia and Diarrhea
GMP	
	
Good Manufacturing Practices
HANDS	 	
Health and Nutrition Development Society 
HF	
	
Health Facility 
HIMS	
	
Health Information Management system
HISDU	 	
Health Information and Service Delivery Unit 
iCCM	
	
Integrated Community Case Management
IHS	
	
Integrated Health Services
IRMNCH&NP 	
Integrated Reproductive Maternal Newborn Child Health & Nutrition Program
KP	
	
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
LMIC	
	
Low and Middle Income Countries 
LMIS	
	
Logistic Management Information system
LMU	
	
Logistics Management Unit
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
5
Lo-ORS	 	
Low Osmolarity Oral Rehydration Solution 
LSAT	
	
Logistic System Assessment Tool
LP	
	
Local Purchased
LHW	
	
Lady Health Worker
MICS	
	
Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey
MOU	
	
Memorandum of Understanding 
MEA	
	
Monitoring and Evaluation Assistant
MIS	
	
Management Information System
MNCH	 	
Maternal, Newborn and Child Health
MSH	
	
Management Sciences of Health
MO	
	
Medical Officer
NEML	
	
National Essential Medicines List
ORS	
	
Oral Rehydration Solution
P&SHD	 	
Primary and Secondary Healthcare Department
PITB	
	
Punjab Information Technology Board
PPPs	
	
Public Private Partners
PPHI	
	
Peoples Primary Health care Initiative 
PPHSS	 	
Punjab Public Health Sector Strategy
RHC	
	
Rural Health Center
RMNCAH&N	
Reproductive Maternal Newborn Child Adolescent Health & Nutrition
SCMS	
	
Supply Chain Management system 
SDG	
	
Sustainable Development Goals
SHC&ME	
Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Department
SOP	
	
Standard Operating Procedure
SRO	
	
Stringent Regulatory Ordinance 
THQ	
	
Tehsil Head Quarter Hospital
U5	
	
Under 5 years
UN	
	
United Nations
USFDA	 	
Unites States Food and Drug Administration 
UNICEF	 	
United Nations Children’s Fund
USAID	
	
United States Agency for International Development
WHO	
	
World Health Organization
WHO LIS	
World Health Organization Library Information System
01
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
8
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
01
1.1	
Background
UNICEF and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation established a partnership to contribute to increase the child 
survival in Pakistan.  MG (Melinda Gates) Foundation achieved their goal by improving the process of diagnosis and 
treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in children less than 5 years of age. The Project “Accelerating policy change, 
translation and implementation for Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities in Pakistan”, is to be implemented in 
close coordination of the Government of Pakistan and relevant stakeholders to ensure sustainable changes. 
Pakistan has the third highest rate of maternal, Fetal, and child mortality in the world1 . According to the research 
in   2010, the mortality rate of children under five (U5) is 89 deaths per 1,000 live births, with 1 in every 11 Pakistani 
children not surviving to his fifth birthday. Each year, approximately 91,000 children die of Pneumonia and 53,300 
children die of Diarrhea. According to Demographic Health Survey of Pakistan 2012-13 a low proportion of 
children is receiving appropriate treatment. Only 38% of children suffering from Diarrhea are properly treated 
with Oral Rehydration Solution (ORS) and 1.5% received Zinc. Nearly half of children suffering from Pneumonia 
received suitable antibiotic. One out of nine children receives no treatment for Diarrhea and 59% of them remain 
untreated for Pneumonia.
1.2	
Purpose
The pharmaceutical logistics assessment of Pakistan was carried out through UNICEF and Bill Melinda Gates 
Foundation. The assessment was particularly conducted for DoH Sindh and Punjab. The provincial level assessment 
has been conducted for Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Balochistan and FATA for advocacy purpose.
The main purpose of the assessment was to provide the quantitative data on the supply of selected medicines 
and commodities at public health facilities and private pharmacies. The assessment was conducted to provide 
an in-depth situation analysis of pharmaceutical supply chain management system at all levels i.e. National, 
Provincial, District and Sub-district levels. The health service delivery levels include central warehouse (at 
provincial and district level), health facility and medicines store (at sub-district level). Vertical programs (IRMNCH, 
LHW program,PNC, and MNCH) were also assessed to provide the baseline information to track changes and 
improvement in pharmaceutical supply chain management system. To attain sustainability of availability of 
Diarrhea and Pneumonia medicines certain measures should be taken for local level production. The study also 
provides the base line knowledge for the registration of new formulations (Amoxicillin DT and combo pack of ORS 
& Zinc supplementation) with Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan. 
DoH and development partners required this information to explore national/provincial drug requirements and 
to measure the performance of logistics supply chain system. Moreover, they wanted some basic information 
regarding the duration of availability of essential medicines for Diarrhea and Pneumonia at health facilities and 
the reasons of stock outs.
1Reproductive, maternal, newborn, and child health in Pakistan: challenges and opportunities: Health Transitions in Pakistan, The 
Lancet Volume 381, No. 9884, p2207-2218, 22 June 2013
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
9
1.3	
Objectives
The supply chain management system assessment has 
following objectives:
•	
To analyze the current supplies logistic system for 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea management through 
in-depth situation analysis for public sector 
health facilities and vertical programs dealing in 
management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia.
•	
To consult with key opinion leaders, decision 
makers and other stake holders to discuss the 
existing logistic systems for the procurement and 
distribution of Pneumonia and Diarrhea medicines 
within the country especially in - Sindh and Punjab 
provinces. 
•	
To give practical and logical  recommendations 
to the  stakeholders on how updated logistic 
management information system (LMIS) can 
be introduced in supply chain management for 
forecasting, procurement, inventory management, 
warehousing and distribution and also on linking 
of revised DHIS tools with LMIS.
1.4	
Methodology
The methodology of assessment is based on mixed 
analysis that is quantitative and qualitative. The 
quantitative analysis is established on the data derived 
from the Logistics System Assessment Tool (LSAT) 
developed by USAID Deliver Project and recommended 
by WHO for the assessment of logistics / supply chain 
management of medicines.  However, the qualitative 
analysis was based on the information gathered 
through semi structured in-depth interviews. 
1.5	
Key Findings
In accordance with the scope of work for this 
assessment, the pharmaceutical LSAT was used to 
obtain baseline data for the indicators. The data 
collected for selected indicators is presented in various 
tables while the key findings are as follows;
1.	
All the Provincial procurement cells 
have facilitated the districts by providing 
central rate contract with prequalified 
firms except in Balochistan. The health 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
10
department of Balochistan has central procurement of medicines. WHO recommended method of 
forecasting was not implemented in provinces. 
2.	
The teaching hospitals (health facilities) where computerized inventory management software 
were implemented under the supervision of SHC&ME have shown better result in inventory 
management based on LSAT assessment i.e. 92%, comparing with DHQ hospitals of Sindh, which 
were not facilitated with such interventions, have shown 52% results only. 
3.	
In Sindh in LHW-LMIS it has been observed,  where the definition of SCMS has been modified like 
the definition of availability of stock was “% of LHW who did not have logistics item available” , 
definition of opening stock balance was “% of LHW who did not have opening balance available for 
logistic item”. Even the DHIS does not give the clear picture of the stock status of tracer elements. 
Furthermore, the LMIS from health facilities was not web based. The LMIS program of LHWs does 
not report the stock status of Amoxicillin suspension and Zinc supplement.  
4.	
In the public health supply chain system, frequent stock outs were reported. Medicines forecasting 
was based on consumption methodology which does not fulfill WHO recommendations. Khyber 
Pakhtunkhwa, however, has adopted mix method approach of medicines forecasting that is 
consumption + morbidity based forecasting. In Punjab, E-procurement cell has developed the 
medicines forecasting which is also based on consumption method. By and large, in the vertical 
program the reasons for stock out were common in all provinces. 
5.	
Bulk orders were given to the prequalified manufacturers who were responsible to supply the 
medicines to all the districts simultaneously. The supplies, however, were not made within agreed 
time which was one of the contributing factors of stock out. 
6.	
In Sindh, the medicines samples were not sent to the Drug Testing Lab for quality assurance on 
frequent basis.  They   assumed that prequalified manufacturers do not require laboratory analysis. 
Another reason was time required by the DTL for submission of analytical reports. 
7.	
WHO and NEML 2016 recommend solid oral dosage form of Zinc in the treatment of Diarrhea rather 
Zinc syrup. In government procurement Zinc Syrup is common as compared to Zinc tablet that was 
only available at DHQ hospital Bahawalnagar Punjab. Commercially, this syrup was only available 
in large pharmacies. Zinc syrup contains sugar as sweetening agent which is not recommended by 
WHO in Diarrhea because it can cause osmotic Diarrhea and hypernatremia. The gap of availability 
of amoxicillin suspension was observed during the assessment. 
8.	
The drug registration process takes 3 to 4 years. Commercial market of Amoxicillin DT and Zinc 
DT was not established yet.  This situation, therefore, could not motivate manufacturer to take 
interest and get their product registered with DRAP. The drug law “Procedure for Registration of 
Drugs” clause 2. (v) states “Provided that under special circumstances to be recorded in writing, 
the Registration Board may register a drug and require such investigations and clinical trials to be 
conducted after its registration.” And clause 2. (ix) further states “Where it is necessary in the public 
interest so to do, the Registration Board may register a drug on its own motion without having 
received any application for registration.” 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
11
1.6	
Conclusion
1.	
The public health supply chain system was predominantly mixture of “push” and “pull” system. But 
in case of unavailability of demanded medicines it becomes “Push” system
2.	
The issues of report submission could be resolved with computerized inventory management 
system
3.	
During the process of LMIS and revised DHIS integration difficulties may occur. These difficulties 
may be due to different master sheets and SoPs of data entry and results.
4.	
The medicines forecasting and quantification should be based on the WHO recommendations to 
minimize the stock-outs.  
5.	
The storage capacity of medicines at health facility level was not enough. The staff who is handling 
the pharmaceuticals needs WHO recommended technical knowledge.
6.	
The medicines distribution system from district warehouse to health facility were not based on 
any forecast criteria. Department of health does not have suitable vehicles for pharmaceutical 
transportation which creates hurdle in distribution plans
7.	
The process of prequalification of manufacturers was not up to the mark.  It does not accurately 
judge the production capacity of manufacturers. Delays in supplies has been observed from 
manufacturers.
1.7	
Recommendations
1.7.1	 Immediate Recommendations
1.	
The inventory of medicines of health facilities should be managed by computerized inventory 
management system.
2.	
The medicines forecasting should be based on comparison of morbidity and consumption method. 
3.	
Immediate steps should be taken for strengthening of DTL of Sindh; for quality assurance of 
medicines procured for public health facilities. 
4.	
The basic technology for integration of LMIS with revised DHIS should be planned for 
comprehensive data mapping, system synchronization, software updates and aligned with 
continuous financial and technical support. 
5.	
Based on WHO recommendations, Zinc DT should be used instead of Zinc syrup for the treatment 
of Diarrhea.
6.	
The distribution of medicines should be in the form of complete courses or Kits so that the STG 
should be followed.
1.7.2	 Medium term Recommendations
1.	
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) should be developed among stakeholders for daily data 
sharing interface between LMIS & revised DHIS. 
2.	
During the consultation with the stakeholders, key performance indicators should be finalized 
and should be regularly monitored.
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
12
3.	
In integrated LMIS and DHIS, STG should be incorporated to develop an automated morbidity 
based method for medicines forecasting.   
4.	
The process of registration of Amoxicillin DT and Co-packing of Lo-ORS and Zinc DT with DRAP 
should be considered according to the provisions of law; as stated in 2.(v) and 2.(ix).
1.7.3	 Long term Recommendations
1.	
The software like “Prescription management Information System” has advantages over inventory 
management system but it should be modified and upgraded to computerized physician order 
entry software (CPOES) approach.  
2.	
Considering the number of outpatients or services delivered from RHC, pharmacist should be 
provided for pharmaceutical activities.
3.	
The capacity of warehouses and technical knowledge of staff should be improved.
  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
13
02
	
INTRODUCTION
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
16
INTRODUCTION
02
2.1	
Background
UNICEF and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation established a partnership, to contribute to increase child survival 
in Pakistan.  This goal was achieved by improving the diagnosis and treatment of Pneumonia and Diarrhea in 
children less than 5 years of age. The Project “Accelerating policy change, translation and implementation for 
Pneumonia and Diarrhea commodities in Pakistan”, aimed to implement the policies to ensure sustainable 
changes.   The M.G. Foundation worked with close coordination with the Government of Pakistan and the relevant 
stakeholders. It had an overarching goal to ensure that relevant national policies are revised, understood, and 
adhered to in order to ensure quality treatment and availability of the essential commodities for improving 
management of childhood Diarrhea and Pneumonia and increasing child survival by the end of 2019. The project 
also focused on incorporating Pneumonia and Diarrhea management commodities into essential medicines 
lists and advocates for increased resource allocation for commodities; it also catalyzed the initial stages of 
the commodities procurement process with the government authorities and pharmaceutical manufacturing 
stakeholders.  Moreover, the Foundation concentrated on updating and strengthening supply chain and logistics 
management systems to track the respective commodities. This was done to further supplement the planned work 
of the project. The commodity availability targets were developed to determine its success, and the results will be 
documented and disseminated as learning for contemporary in-country initiatives and long-term sustainability.
The primary outcomes that are likely to be achieved through this project include the following: 
Outcome 1: Policy Change 
Existing national/provincial policies and guidelines are updated in line with global recommendations (WHO/
GAPPD) for management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia; among children under five in Pakistan by the end of 2019. 
Outcome 2: Policy Translation
Translation of the revised and updated Pneumonia and Diarrhea treatment guidelines, into relevant action plans, 
by all provincial/areas health departments, in Pakistan by the end of 2019. 
Outcome 3: Policy Implementation
Availability of essential commodities such as Amoxicillin DT, Zinc DT, co-packed ORS and Zinc suspension, oxygen, 
ARI timers, and pulse oximeters.  It was required for the treatment of childhood Pneumonia and Diarrhea in 
Pakistan by the end of 2019. 
Outcome 4: Knowledge Management 
Translation of lessons learned from this investment, to other settings/broader geographical areas within Pakistan. 
This four year Project has completed its first six months inception phase (Jan-June2016). The implementation 
activities for this project are planned for the remaining period of 2016 and onward. 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
17
2.2	
Country background
The Islamic Republic of Pakistan consists of Punjab, 
Sindh, Baluchistan, and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Azad 
Jammu and Kashmir (AJK), and the territories including 
FATA and province of Gilgit-Baltistan. The total land 
area of Pakistan is 796,095 km with an estimated 
population of 207.8 million2. Approximately 64% of 
the population lives in rural areas (Economic survey of 
Pakistan, 2013-14, Pakistan Demographic and Health 
Survey 2012-13) The country is a lower-middle income 
country with a GDP of US $ 1,368 per capita (Pakistan 
Economic Survey 2013-14).
2.3	
Purpose
Pakistan has the third largest rate of maternal, fetal, and 
child mortality in the world3. As of 2010, the mortality 
rate of children under five (U5) is 89 deaths per 1,000 
live births. This explains that one of the 11 Pakistani 
children does not survive to his fifth birthday. Acute 
respiratory infections (ARIs) and dehydration caused by 
severe Diarrhea are major causes of childhood mortality 
in Pakistan. Every year, approximately 91,000 children 
die from Pneumonia and 53,300 children death is 
caused due to Diarrhea. In total, Diarrhea, Pneumonia, 
collectively becomes the major cause of death among 
children in Pakistan4. According to Demographic 
Health Survey of Pakistan 2012-13, a less number of 
children are receiving appropriate treatment: only 38% 
of children suffering from Diarrhea receive adequate 
treatment with Oral Rehydration Solution (ORS) and 
only 1.5% receives Zinc; only half of children suffering 
from Pneumonia receive an appropriate antibiotic. 
Statistically, one out of nine children suffering from 
Diarrhea receives no treatment, and 59% receive no 
treatment for Pneumonia. The prevention of these 
illnesses; nevertheless, is ideal but it is critical to treat 
them correctly and timely.
Hence, the situation requires a focused revision of 
the high-level policies; strengthening the training and 
knowledge of the health care providers, supporting 
production and procurement of relevant commodities, 
and improving the supply and logistics systems to track 
commodity stock and utilization. This study is a corollary 
to the study on “Budgetary gap analysis of Diarrhea and 
Pneumonia commodities at provincial/region level”.
2Pakistan Bureau of Statistics Government of Pakistan 2017. 
http://www.pbscensus.gov.pk/
3Reproductive, maternal, newborn, and child health in Pakistan: 
challenges and opportunities: Health Transitions in Pakistan, The 
Lancet Volume 381, No. 9884, p2207-2218, 22 June 2013
4Interventions to address deaths from childhood Pneumonia and 
Diarrhea equitably: what works and at what cost? 
The Lancet, Volume 381, No. 9875, p. 1417-1429, 20 April 2013.
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
18
2.4	
Objectives
The objectives of the analysis are as follows:
■	
Review the existing supply management system at National, Provincial, District and Sub district levels.
■	
To analyze the current supplies logistic system for Pneumonia and Diarrhea management, through 
in-depth situation analysis.  For the public sector health facilities and the vertical programs dealing 
in management of Diarrhea and Pneumonia.
■	
To consult with key opinion leaders decision makers and other stake holders to discuss the  existing 
logistic systems for the procurement and distribution of Pneumonia and Diarrhea medicines within 
the country especially in Sindh and Punjab provinces. 
■	
To give practical and logical  recommendations to the  stakeholders on how to upgrade  logistic 
management information system (LMIS); that can help in forecasting, procurement, inventory 
management, warehousing and distribution and also on linking of revised DHIS tools with LMIS.
■	
To review the process of registration of pharmaceutical items by Drug Regulatory Authority of 
Pakistan.  It also aims to submit recommendations to get this process expedited for registration of 
essential drugs for management of Pneumonia and Diarrhea.
■	
To document all above objectives in detail with in-depth situation analysis.
2.5	
Scope of Evaluation
In-depth situation analysis of commodities and supplies of logistic system at national, provincial, district and 
sub-district levels, related to Pneumonia and Diarrhea, has helped to determine the situation of SCMS. It also 
defines the existing policies and their relevance with recommendation of GAPPD, gaps in SCMS which include; 
product selection, situation of staffing, LMIS, forecasting & quantification, procurement, inventory management, 
warehousing, distribution of medicines, organizational support for logistics, rational utilization of drugs and 
situation analysis of private sector in Diarrhea and Pneumonia management. 
The role of Public Private Partners (PPHI, IHS and HANDS) is strengthening of department of health. Strengthening 
of Public Private Partners was considered as strengths of concerned department of health. Individual assessment 
of PPPs was not included in the scope of the study.
2.6	
Intended audience
The intended audience includes policy makers, government officials, stakeholders and not-for-profit organizations 
who deal with strengthening and capacity building of SCMS and integration of LMIS with revised DHIS. Report will 
also facilitate those stakeholders and firms who require new product registration from DRAP.
2.7	
Study’s Contribution to the Theory of Change for Pneumonia and Diarrhea 
Project
■ 	
WHO has defined logistics as an art of supply and maintenance. It involves a scientific discipline and 
utilization of the management principles. Logistics for peripheral health facility as provision of activities 
including planning, budgeting, receiving and inspection, storage, inventory control, supply, distribution. 
Besides it includes the transportation, maintenance and repair, communications, environmental 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
19
management of health facilities, record and reporting, supervision and logistics training5 .
In LMIC, lower buying power of patients, hinders the access to essential medicines; leading them to opt 
alternate therapies especially in rural areas. It has also observed, that inappropriate prescription and 
dispensing of medicines; creates the gaps to access the essential medicines6. WHO, described, that one 
of the key component of the functioning health system; is provision of access to affordable, appropriate 
and high quality medicines. The access of essential medicines; is the outcome of integration of finance, 
planning, service delivery, and information management and governance system7.  
 The studies conducted in different areas of Pakistan have also referred the issues of the supply chain 
management of medicines in public sector. The access to medicines is a big challenge for poor in Pakistan. 
One of the issues regarding the access to essential medicines, as reported in different studies; is, that 
the government spends very little on health sector. It has also been reported, that such issues include 
lack of policies legislation and regulation, wastage of resources, mismanagement, lack of knowledge and 
capacities and infrastructures etc.
The in-depth situation analysis of the supply chain management of medicines, will help in analyzing the 
SCM system of public sectors through WHO’s recommended procedures and guidelines. The results of 
the analysis, will support the recommendations for policy or procedures change; to improve the access of 
essential Medicines to combat Diarrhea and Pneumonia.
2.8	
Researcher’s Introduction
The study has been conducted by Public health consultant who is pharmacist by profession. Previously he has 
worked for WHO, TRF plus, GAIN and other multinational pharmaceutical industries.  
5Battersby, A., & World Health Organization. (1985). How to assess health services logistics with particular reference to peripheral health facilities.
6World Health Organization. (2008). Medicine prices, availability, affordability and price components: a synthesis report of medicine price 
surveys undertaken in selected countries of the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region.
7World Health Organization. (2004). WHO Medicines strategy 2004-2007: countries at the core.
03
METHODOLOGY
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
22
METHODOLOGY
03
The methodology of assessment is mixed analysis that is quantitative and qualitative analysis. The quantitative 
analysis is based upon the Logistics System Assessment Tool (LSAT) developed by USAID Deliver Project and 
recommended by WHO8  for the assessment of logistics / supply chain management of medicines.  As per the 
recommendation of LSAT for devolved health system, all provinces to be studied should be assessed separately; 
with recommended modifications of health service delivery levels, as described in the tool. The qualitative analysis 
is semi structured in-depth interviews based upon the desk review. 
The provincial level assessment has been conducted for Sindh, Punjab, Baluchistan, KP and FATA.  The district and 
sub-district level assessment has been conducted only for Sindh and Punjab because the project funding was for 
these two provinces. The other provinces were assessed for advocacy purpose.
The details of the methodology is as follows
3.1	
Phase I: Methodology for Desk review
The methodology adopted for the extraction of research papers from internet was as follows
TABLE 1: Methodology of Desk Review
Online Search
Search Terms
Research Inclusion Criteria
Electronic databases searched: 
PubMed, Cochrane, Cinahal, 
WHOLIS, MSH, ELDIS, Google 
Scholar. 
Websites searched: 
Provincial Departments of Health, 
WHO Pakistan, WHO-EMRO and 
Pakistan Consumer Protection 
Network.
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain 
Management, Drug Supply and 
Pakistan, Rationale Drug Use 
and Pakistan; Drug Financing 
and Pakistan; Drug Affordability 
and Pakistan; Drug Access 
and Pakistan; Drug Availability 
and Pakistan; Drug Policy and 
Pakistan; Pharmaceutical Policy 
and Pakistan. Searches conducted 
during last five years period.
Primary research studies, reviews, 
case reports. Excluded: opinion 
pieces, commentary articles, bio-
efficacy studies. 
Grey Literature: Policy Acts, Policy 
Guidelines, Policy or strategic 
frameworks, National formulary.
8World Health Organization. (2010). Monitoring the building blocks of health systems: a handbook of indicators and their measurement 
strategies (p. 20). Geneva: World Health Organization.
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
23
Using the PubcMed search engine “Pharmaceutical 
Supply Chain Management” 144 results were found, six 
from Cinahal and operational framework from WHOLIS. 
Abstracts and summary reports were reviewed. There 
were 86 studies that were further shortlisted for 
detailed study.  Free full text researches and documents 
shared by government in their websites were studied 
and referred in the desk review. Complete desk review 
and references are shared in Annex 1. 
3.2	
Phase II: Methodology of Data 
Collection
The indicators for the assessment have been divided 
into following levels 
■	
Assessment at National Level 
■	
Assessment at Provincial Level
■	
Assessment at District and Sub-District 
Level
Following are the categories of the indicators based 
upon the LSAT Tool. As per the recommendations 
of LSAT the scoring of sub-indicators were modified 
for devolved healthcare system. A complete set of 
indicators of modified scores are attached in Annex 2.
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
24
Table 2: categories of indicators
Section #
Categories of Indicators
1
Policy, Legislation and Regulation
2
Product Selection
3
Organization and Staffing
4
Logistic Management Information System
5
Forecasting
6
Obtaining Supplies / procurement
7
Inventory Control Procedures
8
Warehousing and Storage
9
Transport and Distribution
10
Organizational Support for Logistics
11
Product Use
12
Patient Exit Interviews
13
Private sector; Availability of services and medicines
3.2.1	 Key Informants
The selection of key informant was based on the role of the informant in public health department. 
Special care was taken in selecting the most suitable person to respond to the questionnaire.
Table 3: List of key informants at National Level
Sr. #
Key Informants
National Level
1
DRAP
X
2
EM WHO
X
3
MNHS R&C
X
4
Federal DG Health
X
Table 4: List of key informants at provincial level
Sr. 
#
Key Informants
Punjab
Sindh
KP
Baluchistan
AJK
FATA
1
DG Health
X
X
X
X
X
X
2
Director MSD
X
X
3
Director IRMNCH & NP 
for FP & PHC
X
X
X
X
X
X
4
Chief Pharmacist 
(Purchase cell)
X
X
X
X
X
X
5
Store keepers
X
X
X
X
X
X
6
PPHI / HANDs / IHS
X
7
Specialized Hospital /  
DHQs
X
X
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
25
Table 5: List of key informants at District and Sub-district levels
Sr. #
Key Informants
District Level
Sub-District Level
CEO / 
EDO 
(H)
Central 
Ware-
house
Coordinator 
LHW Program or 
IRMNCH & NP
Warehouse 
or IRMNCH 
& NP
DHQ 
hospi-
tal
THQ 
hospi-
tal
RHC
BHU
1
CEO / DHO
X
X
2
Head
X
3
MS
X
4
HF in-charge
X
X
X
5
Pharmacist
X
X
X
6
Store keepers
X
X
X
X
X
X
7
LHW & CMW
X
8
Patient exit interview
X
X
X
X
9
Private sector doctor 
and pharmacy
X
X
X
3.2.2	 Criteria for Selection of Districts
On the basis of the data of disease episodes provided by the Bureau of Statistics of Pakistan Multiple Indicator 
Cluster Survey (MICS) Sindh, 20149  and the Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey Punjab, 201410  following district has 
been selected for the assessment. For Sindh, the criteria for the selection of districts was as follows
■	
One district from each division has been selected for comprehensive review of supply chain 
management system of the province except in DG Khan Division of Punjab where an additional 
district (Rajanpur) was selected on the request of the DoH.
■	
Districts showning high percentage of disease episodes of Diarrhea & ARI, for example, symptoms 
in MICS 2014.
■	
Districts administered through Health Department of Sindh, Public or private partnership, in order 
to get the comparative situation of supply chain management cycle. 
■	
Good performing districts and bad performing districts; based on the treatment of Diarrhea and ARI, 
for example, symptoms taken from public sector. 
9Sindh Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) 2014, Final Report. http://sindhbos.gov.pk/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/01-Sindh-MICS-2014-Final-
Report.pdf
10Punjab Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) 2014, Final Report. http://www.bos.gop.pk/mics2014
Table 6: Criteria for selection of districts
Province
Divisions
Districts
Percentage of episodes of
Diarrhea
ARI symptoms
Sindh
Larkana
Kashmore
32.4
16.9
Sukkur
Sukkur
33.8
20.3
Hyderabad
Tando Muhammad Khan
31.2
9.0
Mirpur Khas
Tharparkar
23.4
9.5
Karachi
Karachi Malir
28.8
10.8
Shaheed 
Benazirabad
Shaheed 
Benazirabad
26.9
5.8
Punjab
Bahawalpur
Bhawalnagar
11.5
3.2
DG Khan
Muzaffargarh
18.8
5.0
DG Khan
Rajanpur
22.8
5.5
Sahiwal
Pakpattan
19.4
3.8
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
26
3.2.3	 Public Health Facilities
A  District Headquarter hospital, a Tehsil Headquarter Hospital, RHC and two BHUs have been 
visited to assess the medicines supply chain management system. The selection of BHUs was 
based on the distance from the central medicines distribution point, to assess the bottlenecks 
of medicines distribution and lead time.
3.2.4	
Warehouses
Provincial central warehouse, district central warehouse, district warehouse of vertical program, 
health facilities medicine store of above mentioned districts have also been visited for the 
assessments of the storage conditions of medicines.
3.2.5	
Patient Exit Interviews
Caretakers of the children with Diarrhea were interviewed to evaluate the provision of medicines 
and dispensing practices of the hospitals. Five caretakers of Pneumonia or Diarrhea patient 
from each health facility were planned. 
3.2.6	
Private Hospitals and Pharmacies
Five private practitioners and pharmacies were selected based upon the information provided 
by the respondents of households
3.2.7	
Health Facilities & Warehouse visited
Apart from the provincial offices, sample size for the collection of the data was 64 including 
warehouses and health facilities out of which 38 from Sindh and 26 from Punjab were visited.
3.3	
Phase III: Methodology for Analysis
The data of the quantitative indicators has been analyzed using LSAT analytical score. The LSAT recommended 
scores as mentioned in Annex 2
3.4	
Study Management
The study was managed by the preparation of “Inception Report” which was reviewed by UNICEF and presented 
to stakeholders in quarterly meeting of “Technical Working Group on Child Survival”. The suggestions were 
incorporated. The Government was taken on board for the collection of data. Official letters from the government 
were issued. Data was collected and analyzed. Draft report was presented to UNICEF which was reviewed internally 
and suggestions and comments were incorporated. Findings of the report were presented to the stakeholders in 
“National Technical Working Group on RMNCAH & N”. 
3.5	
Study Limitations
The time for data collection and key informant interviews was limited. The patient exit interviews were limited 
to the availability of caretakers of patients at the time of assessment. As described in the scope of the study, 
the assessment was limited to department of health. The contributions of PPHI, IHS, HANDS and Micronutrient 
Initiative (now called Nutrition International) were considered as strengths of department of health. The district of 
Punjab in which Nutrition International was working was not included in the study. Their financial contributions 
were described in budgetary gap analysis study.
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
27
3.6	
Ethical Standards
The study will follow strict ethical guidelines associated with undertaking quantitative and qualitative research. 
The consent has been taken from key informants before starting the interview. During the interview socio-culture 
context were kept in view. No interviews were planned or conducted from children. The study has ensured that 
the research should not in any way harm the respondent. The report has not included any direct or indirect 
identification information of research participants. All ethical standards of UNICEF were followed.
04
	
RESULTS & ANALYSIS 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
30
RESULTS & ANALYSIS 
04
The main focus of the assessment findings were Policy, legislation and regulation, Product selection, Organization 
and Staffing, Logistics management information System, Forecasting, Procurement, Inventory management, 
Warehousing.  Moreover, the assessment of storage, Transportation & Distribution, Organizational support for 
logistics and Rational utilization of medicines, registration of new formulations of amoxicillin dispersible tablet 
with Drug Regulator Authority of Pakistan. The major findings of the assessment were as follows.
1)	
National Essential Medicines List:
	
Pakistan has National Essential list based on which provincial EML were prepared. Provinces have 
procurement rules of medicines which restrict the DoH to procure the medicines only from the Provincial 
Essential Medicines List, or, if required, from NEML. The strict rules for medicines selection from NEML, 
have strengthened the product selection of SCMS. 
2)	
Logistic Management Information System:
	
The status of LMIS was more or less similar in Sindh and Punjab. The situation of vertical program was 
also same in both provinces. 
3)	
Forecasting:
	
The quality of forecasting is based on the availability of data. The impact of LMIS on forecasting gave the 
same results. 
4)	
Procurement:
	
At the districts of Sindh and Punjab, procurement process was similar LSAT scoring that is 53%.  While 
the score of Specialized healthcare and medical education (SH&ME), was 70%, which was the highest 
percentage in the public sector.
5)	
Inventory control:
	
The inventory control procedures of SH&ME hospitals i.e. DHQs of Punjab has shown better results 
of assessment that is 92%. It was mainly due to the development and implementation of medicines 
Inventory management software. The situation of the districts in Punjab was also better; due to the 
introduction of e-procurement system.
6)	
IRMNCH & NP:
	
IRMNCH & NP has totally changed the routine method of medicines distribution. They had outsourced 
the transportation process of medicines to a courier company.
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
32
Comparison of Logistics Systems among Districts in Sindh
Graph 2: Comparison of Logistics System of P&SHD among districts of Punjab
Comparison of Logistics Systems among Districts of Punjab
Graph 1: Comparison of Logistics System of Department of health among Districts of Sindh
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
33
Graph 3: Comparison of logistics system of DHQ hospitals of Sindh and Punjab
Comparison of Logistics Systems among Districts of Punjab
Graph 4: Comparison of logistics system between NP FP&PHS and IRMNCH&NP
Comparison of Logistics System of DHQ Hospitals of Punjab and Sindh
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
34
Graph 5: Logistics System of Baluchistan, KP and FATA
Logistics System of Baluchistan, KP and FATA
4.1	
Drug Registration Process for local production
Diarrhea and Pneumonia are major causes of mortality among children under five in Pakistan. The availability of 
first line therapy, is one of the major challenges to the management of such diseases. Pharmaceutical industry is 
one of the growing industries of Pakistan. 
The medicine essential for the management of these diseases are 
i.	
Low osmolarity ORS already registered and frequent in production.
ii.	
Zinc Dispersible Tablet already registered but not frequent in commercial market
iii.	
Amoxicillin Dispersible tablet not registered in Pakistan
iv.	
Co-packing of Low osmolarity ORS and Zinc Tablet not registered in Pakistan.
The production of Lo-ORS and Zinc DT is easily available, while the drugs like, amoxicillin DT and Co-packaging, 
required registration with Drug Regulatory Authority of Pakistan (DRAP) for local production. Any manufacturing 
industry having capacity to manufacture “tablet” and “powder” can apply for the registration of co-pack.
Drug Act 1976, regulates the import, manufacture, storage distribution and sale of the drugs. These drugs are 
registered under section 7 of drug act 1976. Registration board is the authority of registration of drug. 
It was observed that period of 3-4 years is required by the DRAP for the completion of registration.  Already many 
applications, committee meetings, industrial inspections are still pending and the number is increasing day by 
day. For the registration of these medicines, the shortest possible time and the helpful provision of rules of drug 
registration should be considered. These rules are described in clause 2 (v) and 2 (ix).
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
35
 11Minutes of 247th Meeting, Registration Board held on 04th February, 2015.
Recently 7.1% chlorhexidine digluconate gel has been registered with DRAP. The process of registration was based 
on the morbidity needs which were described by the UNICEF. Details of the process has been shared by DRAP in 
minutes for 247th meeting of Registration Board held on 4th February 201511 . The process of the registration of 
the Drugs is briefly described here; while detail is mentioned in Annex 3.
Clause 2. (V)
The Registration Board shall, before registering a new drug for which the research work has been conducted in 
other countries and its efficacy, safety and quality has been established therein, require the investigation on such 
pharmaceutical, pharmacological and other aspects, to be conducted and clinical trials to be made as are necessary 
to establish its quality and, where applicable, the biological, availability, and its safety and efficacy to be established 
under the local conditions: Provided that under special circumstances to be recorded in writing, the Registration 
Board may register a drug and require such investigations and clinical trials to be conducted after its registration.
Clause 2. (IX)
Where it is necessary in the public interest, so to do, the Registration Board may register a drug on its own motion 
without having received any application for registration.
4.1.1.1	 Steps for registration of new formulation
1.	 The process of registration, for the new formulation, particularly Amoxicillin DT and 
packaging of ORS & Zinc supplementation consists of the following steps:  Collection of 
reference material, preparing the desk review of impact analysis of Amoxicillin DT and ORS 
and Zinc co-packaging in other countries.
2.	 It also involves the consultation with Pharmaceutical Bureau, Pharmaceutical Manufacturing 
Association, Research & development of DRAP and other stakeholders, for preparation of 
comparative study of different formulation of the subjected medicines in Pakistan. The 
stakeholders include UNICEF, WHO, R & D of DRAP, Health Department of all Provinces, 
Pharmaceutical Bureau, Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Association of Pakistan, Pakistan 
Pharmacist Association, United State Pharmacopeia Pakistan and Nutrition International. 
3.	 With consultation of PMA, selection of those pharmaceutical industries that are already 
registered with DRAP for manufacturing of Zinc DT and ORS for Co-packaging of ORS and 
Zinc supplementation. Amoxicillin DT needs bilateral discussion with DRAP and other 
stakeholders.
4.	 Preparation of bilateral meeting documents including invitation letters agenda, and studies, 
that has to be shared with participant etc.
5.	 Coordinate lobbying / Advocacy Bilateral meeting
6.	 Submission of final report of lobbying / Advocacy bilateral meeting (including minutes, 
conclusion and recommendations)
4.1.1.2	 Potential Manufacturer for Registration
In discussion with Pakistan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (PPMA), a manufacturer 
has been introduced, who is interested in registration of Co-package of ORS and Zinc DT and 
Amoxicillin DT. The manufacturer was already registered for Zinc DT with DRAP and soon they 
will receive the registration of ORS.
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
36
4.2	
Findings
4.2.1	
Section I: Policy, Legislation and Regulation
Pakistan has National Drug Policy, but does not clarify the duty taxes on import of donated 
items.  The SRO notification of Government of Pakistan through DRAP, MNHS R&C, explains the 
exemption of the duty and taxes on import of drugs for donation in Gazette of Pakistan.
The law and regulation of Pakistan promotes the local manufacturing of medicines, rather 
than, the import of finished drug from other countries; but in public interest, the import is 
allowed. The drug policy encourages the access of medicines at health service delivery sites. It 
also promotes or encourages the access of patient for utilizing the services by improving the 
availability of medicines at HF. In Punjab, on the other hand, public awareness has also been 
created through TV and print media. Provincial details are as follows
4.2.2	
Section II: Product Selection
The product selection of medicines for procurement and availability at the service delivery 
site were based on the National Essential Medicines. All the products except Zinc solid oral 
dosage form selected for the procurement were from National Essential Medicines List, 
which was available on official website of DRAP.  NEML, has been used for the development 
of provincial essential medicines list, and the list of medicines for central rate contract. The 
criteria for the selection of any product for essential medicines list, was WHO recommendations 
and disease burden. It has been observed that Zinc syrup was procured rather Zinc solid oral 
dosage form. The essential packages for health services were available for Punjab, Sindh and 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. The services included in EPHS were:  Immunization, Antenatal , Natal 
and Postnatal  care, Inter-natal care, prevention of STI and RTI, FP service, Major Micronutrient 
deficiencies, mental health, screening, outreach services for all levels of health facilities. The 
survey conducted, was primarily for assessment of Diarrhea and Pneumonia medicines which 
include ORS, Zinc supplementation, and Amoxicillin suspension which were part of essential 
medicines list for all the provinces.
Diarrhea and Pneumonia are vaccine preventable diseases. Rota virus was the major contributor 
of deaths of children suffering from Diarrhea in Pakistan. In Punjab vaccine for Rota virus and 
Pneumonia were included in routine EPI while in Sindh Pneumonia vaccine is included in routine 
EPI.
4.2.3	
Section III: Organization and Staffing
Logistics Management Unit (LMU):
According to WHO, LMU, is a management structure that can be used to organize, monitor 
and support all the activities within the logistics system. Through the lens of continuous 
improvement; LMU identifies the Supply Chain problems, develop solutions and implement 
those interventions. LMU is an important link between the different organizations, levels, and 
actors within the supply chain.
LMU were available in all provinces. It was responsible for managing and using the logistics 
management information system, forecasting, procurement, inventory management and 
distribution. The selection of product was in consultation with the Districts.  It was also 
responsible for the supervision and development of logistics staff. 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
37
■	
Although, at the provincial level, the activities were facilitated by specific units, for the 
procurement of the medicines; like: Procurement cell / Procurement Committee in all provinces 
and Medicines Coordination Cell like the one in KP. The key logistics tasks were assigned to 
either of it. The activities used to coordinate key logistics tasks among those responsible for 
logistics were official letters, meeting and joint work plans etc.
■	
 Such staff members (who are employed for other departments and had other departmental 
responsibilities as well) had to perform logistics tasks. It was observed, that the system 
lacks the dedicated HR, to carry out key logistics task with powers and authority and make 
prompt decisions. The logistics activities could be best performed by a qualified person with 
pharmaceutical as well as SCM knowledge. The DHQs hospitals, were facilitated with the 
sufficient number of Pharmacists. It was, therefore, observed that the logistics system was 
better at DHQs as compared to the hospitals like RHCs, where the pharmacist was not available. 
The vertical programs have dedicated logisticians but SCM tasks were not achieved. It was 
observed that Standard Operating Procedures were also not available at all service delivery 
levels. The logistics system has one year plan in all provinces. The smooth functioning of the 
supply chain system was affected by transporters strikes, resulting in the delays of supplies 
from manufacturers and eventually, it led to the delay in the budget release.
Sindh:
LMU was available at provincial level but it was not integrated as in Punjab. It was fully responsible 
for managing and using LMIS, procurement, inventory management, product selection, supervision 
and logistics staff development. The product selection and forecasting were mainly done at district 
level under the supervision of DHOs. A single line budget was available with DHO and some HF who 
could exercise DDO authority. . They are capable of managing their logistics budget from it. Health 
facilities with DDO power also have single line budget.
■	
SoP or guidelines for medicines forecasting and quantifications were not provided at the district 
levels.  
■	
The Central Level Position, dedicated for logistics is mainly in the district. The logistics officers 
can exercise the same authority as any other functional unit head can. 
■	
The logistics responsibilities were managed by DHO, store keeper at the district level while at 
DHQ Hospital there are Hospital Pharmacist and Store Keepers. 
■	
The Public Private Partners (PPHI, IHS and HANDS) of the Sindh, have LMUs, which were 
indirectly supporting the government health facilities within their scope of work as described in 
their contracts. In Sindh, almost all the BHUs are handled by PPP except in the District Shaheed 
Benazirabad and Karachi.  They facilitated the government for the product selection, forecasting, 
procurement, distribution inventory management, storage, staffing for logistics, financing for 
logistics and supervision. The government of Sindh procures medicines for THQ / RHCs (not 
handed over to IHS). As PPP, is facilitating the government so their strengths and capacities 
were reflected as government services.  Their SCM activities were under the supervision of the 
dedicated logistics staff, showing best performance in their work. Although, they are facilitating 
the government, in terms of services and access to medicines.  All indicators, were applied on 
these organizations as well, in order to explore the strengths of the system and to compare it 
with the government supply chain system. Such comparisons will help the government to adopt 
the strengths of service delivery standards; so that, at the time of exit of PPP service delivery, 
the standards will remain the same, especially in terms of SCMS.
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
38
Punjab:
LMU comprises “e-Procurement and Inventory Management Unit” which was an integrated system 
of medicines procurement.  It has established central level position of logistics management in 
which districts procurement, drug testing labs and prequalified manufactures were involved. It also 
facilitates the medicines forecasting or preparation of rational demand based on the availability 
of the budget and the manufacturer’s capacity. The responsibilities of logistics, other than 
procurement, such as, inventory management, staffing and the product selection were served by 
the district team, under the supervision of CEO. 
■	
SoP of medicines forecasting and quantification (based on WHO guidelines) has been 
provided to all districts through PSPU with the support of TRF plus in the form of forecasting 
and quantification tool. While after the establishment of Primary and Secondary healthcare 
Department, the system has been modified and incorporated in the e-procurement. 
■	
The activities used to coordinate key logistics tasks, besides those responsible for logistics were 
official letters, meeting including online meetings and joint work plans. 
■	
In DHQs, mainly Pharmacist was responsible for logistics management, while hiring of logistics 
officers at DHQ and THQ was in progress. 
Balochistan:
MSD and PPHI collectively takes the responsibility of LMU. The role of MSD in the procurement of 
medicines while rest of all the responsibilities like distribution, inventory management etc. has been 
done by PPHI. 
■	
The MSD, acts as central level position for the procurement of medicines, while handling and 
inventory management is being done by the store keepers.
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa:
In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, at provincial level, LUM was Procurement cell and Medicines Coordination 
cell (MCC). The districts were facilitated with logistics staff.
■	
The MCC, provides the central rate contract list of prequalified manufacturers, while the 
product selection and forecasting is done at districts level. Handling, inventory management 
and warehousing is mainly done by logistics officers and storekeepers at district level. 
■	
The logistics officers have the same level of authorities for decision making as the other 
functional unit heads
FATA:
The procurement is managed by procurement committee / cell. Forecasting of medicines is 
consumption based, which does not fulfill the WHO recommendations.
The central level position of logistics is managed at agencies. The activities used to coordinate key 
logistics tasks among those responsible for logistics were official letters and meeting.  The key 
logistics positions were DHO and Store Keeper, Agency, and the Store keepers.
FP&PHS / IRMCNH & NP
■	
The vertical programs have already selected products, so there is no role of LMU in selection 
of products.  The activities used to coordinate key logistics tasks among those responsible 
for logistics were official letters, meeting and work plans. The logistics staff include Logistics 
Coordinator at provincial level, the Store Keeper at District level,           
■	
In Punjab IRMNCH & NP has recently modified the SCM system and quantities of medicines 
for LHWs have increased. In future, Forecasting will be based on the updates of the modified 
quantities.  The distribution of medicines has been planned through courier/ parcel system.
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
39
4.2.4	
Section IV: Logistics management Information System (LMIS)
The logistics Management Information System in Public health facilities was manual and 
computerized. The computerized system does not show the complete flow of medicines; from 
the receiving till the consumption. In different provinces different efforts were made to get 
maximum information of the logistics management. 
In all provinces DHIS gave the information of stock out status of tracer elements at health 
facilities. DHIS provides the status of stock out only in yes and no format. This is not sufficient 
as it should also provide information of stock levels.  Due to an incomplete information stock 
status (functional stock out) were not reported. Vaccine LMIS (vLMIS) was available but data was 
not updated regularly from all districts. 
In Sindh manual LMIS was implemented which gave the information of stock procured, issued 
etc. The sharing of manual stock reports; from HF to the District level was not regular. The 
health facilities should also be monitored to get actual situation of stocks. 
In Punjab, Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Department has developed a web 
based computerized software for medicines inventory management at teaching hospitals, 
DHQs etc. this software gave real time stock status. The software shares information of status 
of stock outs, near expiry medicines, stock in hand, stock issuance etc. with all logins.  
Health Information and Service Delivery Unit has launched Primary and Secondary Healthcare 
department. At the time of assessment, it was observed that online information including HR, 
logistics information of vaccines, contraceptive, TB, Information of DHIS etc. were shared at 
one dashboard. It was reported, that their next phase will be interlinking information from 
all segments, and making it more useful and result oriented. HISDU has also prepared a 
“Prescription Management Information System” which will track the medicines record from the 
receiving till the issuance to the patient. It will also link with inventory management system. 
Simultaneously, the stock status was also monitored by Monitoring and Evaluation Assistants 
(MEAs) and they prepare monthly report of the stock status of very essential / tracer elements. 
The Health department, rely more on the reports of MEAs because it was considered as an 
external evaluation / physical count of stock status. This report indicates overall performance 
of health facility.  
Vertical programs i.e. FP&PHS and IRMNCH & NP have their own MIS covering specific indicators 
and they depend more on their MIS rather DHIS.  The LHW program reporting mechanism is 
both manual and computerized. 
Ideally, the information provided by the LMIS; should be compiled and performed as automated 
functions of logistics activities. As observed the LMIS / DHIS / MIS focused the stock out status 
and report. There must be more automated systems to support the forecasting, resupply, 
transportation, monitoring of medicines dispensed to the patients as per WHO standards.
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
40
Status of Inventory Control in selected districts of Sindh and Punjab
4.2.5	
Section V: Forecasting
It has been observed that methodology adopted for the medicines forecasting and quantification 
was consumption based, in which, there was no adjustments of days of stock out. Stock for 
lead time, and time required for the laboratory analysis were not included. Buffer stock was 
considered; but the methodology for calculation of buffer stock was not correct. Review period 
for the forecasting was one year; which caters the seasonal variations. It was also observed, 
that the irrational use of medicines was due to the unavailability (stock out) of first line therapy 
which not only creates financial burden, but also was not appreciated and recommended by 
WHO. The activity of medicines forecasting requires financial support; it also depends on how 
much data is required to be collected and analyzed. It is one of the hidden costs of the supply 
chain management system. It was also discovered, that medicines forecasting need proper 
budget allocation.  This situation was observed in all districts of Sindh, Punjab, Baluchistan, KP 
and FATA.
In Punjab, the Primary and secondary Healthcare Department has developed e-Procurement 
system, which is organized through software developed by Punjab Information Technology 
Board. It is a system through which the medicines were forecasted, based on the consumption 
based methodology provided by Policy and Strategic Planning Unit (PSPU). The system has 
improved the availability of medicines in tertiary care hospitals / teaching hospitals. The need 
to compare the consumption based methodology with morbidity based forecasting is still 
required to promote the rational utilization of medicines. 
In Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, particularly in Health department, the medicines forecasting became a 
part of their agenda.  They had developed the computerized tool for medicines forecasting and 
quantification. This tool developed for KP health department was able to conduct forecasting 
of all health facilities, with both techniques i.e. morbidity and consumption method based on 
WHO recommendations. It was observed that the data provided by the DHIS for morbidity 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
41
based forecasting and quantification had limitations which created hurdles for the morbidity 
based medicines forecasting and quantification methodology. 
In Sindh, the Public private partners (PPHI, IHS, and HANDS), considered the importance of 
morbidity based forecasting and quantification. As per the recommendation of WHO, if there 
were no stock out, consumption based methodology can also be applied. The comparison of 
morbidity, consumption based method of forecasting and quantification; promotes the rational 
utilization of medicines. It was observed that PPP compared the consumption based and 
morbidity based forecasted data. Such techniques should be shared with the government staff 
for the capacity building.
4.2.6	
Section VI: Obtaining Supplies/Procurement
Procurement is the process of purchasing supplies; directly from national or multinational, 
private or public supplier. 
Procurement of medicines in public sector followed the government procurement rules. 
For larger quantities, the process of bids was followed. The bidding process is based on the 
estimated quantities from the districts. While with the estimating budget, special care is 
required for procurement of the medicine and equipment. This includes the actual expenditure 
incurred from Jan to May 2017, and the estimated needs for the remaining days of May & June, 
2017. This will cater to the immediate need of payments, required for the medicine, procured 
at provincial level in “centralized procurement” mode. Following the government rules, the 
technical specification and financial specifications were acknowledged. The lowest bidders 
were contracted for the supply of medicines. It is stated, that the quality of the products should 
be according to the standards of drug act.  
In Sindh: According to the “Bid Documents for Procurement of drugs by procuring agencies 
of Sindh,” in General Condition, it is stated that the chemical and physical examination of 
medicines shall be carried out through the provincial drug testing laboratories.
It has been observed and reported by health department Sindh; that the provincial drug testing 
laboratory is not properly functioning, hence, according to the government procurement rules 
“the batch release certificate” for test analysis report of quality control / quality assurance 
department, the manufacturers have to be relied upon.
Similarly, based on this situation, most of the public health facilities did not send their samples 
for quality assurance. The health facilities reported, that they have procured the medicines from 
prequalified firms or manufacturers, so the document was not required. And if they are required 
to send the document for DTL, then there will be more delay in availability of the medicines.
In Punjab:  All the samples of medicines were sent to Drug Testing laboratories. In Punjab, 
particularly, there were five drug testing laboratories established at divisional level by the 
department of health; which covers the analytical requirements. The payments of the 
medicines were only made, when districts or hospitals receive the satisfactory reports from 
these laboratories. 
In Punjab, it was witnessed, that despite putting in a lot of efforts in this case, the selection 
of the brand leaders, development of the new strategies for procurement, efficient follow 
up for pipe line status of orders, increase in budget to meet the gaps, timely submission of 
reports from DTL, timely payments to the manufacturer; an unacceptable delay in supplies 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
42
was observed due to which health facilities were in very bad shape.  So much so that even the 
CEOs of the companies were expecting that if the manufacturers do not supply the medicine 
in time, there were high chances that the budget for procurement of the medicines will lapse. 
The prequalified manufacturer has less manufacturing capacities. During the visits of private 
pharmacies, in private sector, it was observed that there was no delay in the supplies of same 
manufacturer (GSK for Amoxicillin suspension). It shows that these brand leaders have more 
interest in their regular market. 
Such attitudes of the manufacturers were also reported from Sindh province. 
Balochistan: Central procurement system was introduced to ensure the procurement of 
quality products. 
 Note: It has also been noted that the IHS has been contracted as PPP for RHCs but their budget 
has not been released due to which the supply of medicines was affected. IHS has made an 
initial supply from their own budget. This needs to be replenished with the committed budget, 
for smooth operations of health facilities.
4.2.7	
Section VII: Inventory Control
The Inventory control or inventory management is heart of pharmaceutical management 
system. It has been observed that the inventory management was considered as the simplest 
method, based on the receipt, store and issuance of medicines and record. The inventory control 
or management was not effective; mainly, due to the lack of pharmaceutical management 
knowledge or lack of qualified person i.e. pharmacist. One of the outputs of proper inventory 
management system is to create a reasonable balance between holding cost on the one hand 
and purchasing and shortage cost on the other. It could be achieved by applying the techniques, 
like; establishing minimum and maximum stock levels, establishing the reorder levels and 
determining how much to reorder. Organizing the data in effective manner supports the LMIS. 
In Sindh, the inventory management system, used in public health facilities has shown many 
deficiencies in which push system of supplies was mostly observed. The medicines were 
distributed, based on the availability and request from HFs, rather than need. Most of the 
record keeping was manual and even the manual records were not fully updated. The concept 
and importance of bin cards were not fully understood. In some health facilities, either these 
bin cards were missing and in some, if available, were not updated. BHU Jaffer e Teyar of 
District Karachi Malir, stock register was not updated for Amoxicillin suspension. Moreover, 
the requisition for medicines was submitted with wrong information of physical quantities. In 
medicines requisition, stock in hand was reported as zero while physically bottles of Amoxicillin 
suspension were present in the health facility.  
In Punjab, minimum stock level of tracer medicines for health facility has been established for the 
monitoring of MEAs which was considered as stock sufficient for next 45 days. The calculation 
for the average monthly consumption, was not dealing with all the WHO recommendation; but it 
helped in improving the availability of the stock in health facilities. The inventory control is required 
to balance the minimum and maximum stock levels. It was also reported that the excess stock 
of Amoxicillin suspension was distributed from Muzaffarghar. The e-procurement system, total 
maximum limit for the district was defined; because if the procurement exceeded the forecasted 
quantities, it was not possible to manage it with available budgets.  In National program, and 
IRMNCH & NP, the minimum and maximum levels were demarcated. The Specialized healthcare 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
43
& Medical Education department has established its own medicines inventory management 
software, which gives the real time data of the health facilities under its supervision. 
The PPP: The holding cost was managed by increasing the number of supply; which not only 
saved the holding and procurement cost but also the distribution or transportation cost. 
It provided sufficient space to organize the stocks in small store of public health facilities, 
especially in BHUS. 
STOCK AVAILABILITY STATUS AT THE HEALTH FACILITIES DURING ASSESSMENT:
Any health facility that faced even a single day of stock out during one year period was 
considered as stock out. Even, at the time of assessment, the stocks were available but during 
one year period health facility faced the condition of stock out was reported under the stock 
out. It has been observed that the stocks of ORS were comparatively better then Amoxicillin and 
Zinc Supplementation. Mostly the stock outs were observed with LHW program. 
Based on the observations during assessment following percentage of stock availability has 
been recorded. The total number of sample size was 50 out of which 38 service delivery levels 
were observed in Sindh and 26 were visited in Punjab. During the discussion with provincial 
managers of Sindh it was informed that procurement of all medicines were under process and 
within one month period the stocks will be available at the district levels. 
 Details are mentioned in graphs below:
Graph 6: Stock out status of ORS in selected districts of Sindh
Stock out status of ORS in Selected Districts of Sindh 
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Percentage
Central 
WH
% Available
% Stock out
100
0
100
0
100
0
100
0
67
33
83
17
DHQ/civil 
hospital
THQ Hosp
RHC
BHU
FP & PHC
Program
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
44
Graph 7: Stock out status of Zinc Syrup in selected districts of Sindh
Stock out status of Zinc Syrup in Selected Districts of Sindh
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Percentage
Central 
WH
% Available
% Stock out
67
33
100
0
60
40
91
9
67
33
83
17
DHQ/civil 
hospital
THQ Hosp
RHC
BHU
FP & PHC
Program
Graph 8: Stock out status of Amoxicillin suspension in selected district of Sindh
Stock out status of Amoxicillin Suspension in Selected Districts of Sindh
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Percentage
Central 
WH
% Available
% Stock out
83
17
80
20
80
20
91
9
0
100
67
33
DHQ/civil 
hospital
THQ Hosp
RHC
BHU
FP & PHC
Program
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
45
Graph 9: Stock out status of ORS in selected districts of Punjab
Stock out status of Amoxicillin Suspension in Selected Districts of Punjab
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Percentage
Central 
WH
% Available
% Stock out
75
25
100
0
100
0
100
0
75
25
86
14
DHQ/civil 
hospital
THQ Hosp
RHC
BHU
FP & PHC
Program
Stock out status of Amoxicillin Suspension in Selected Districts of Punjab
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Percentage
Central 
WH
% Available
% Stock out
75
25
100
0
100
0
100
0
75
25
86
14
DHQ/civil 
hospital
THQ Hosp
RHC
BHU
FP & PHC
Program
Graph 10: Stock out status of Zinc supplementation in selected districts of Punjab
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
46
Graph 11: Stock out status of Amoxicillin Suspension in Punjab
Stock out status of ORS in selected districts of Punjab
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Percentage
Central 
WH
% Available
% Stock out
75
25
100
0
67
33
50
50
75
25
86
14
DHQ/civil 
hospital
THQ Hosp
RHC
BHU
FP & PHC
Program
4.2.8	
Section VIII: Warehousing and Storage
The storage condition of the medicines has great impact on the service delivery. Among the 
storage conditions, the size of the store or warehouse has great importance. The availability 
of temperature controlling equipments like fridge and AC for maintaining room temperate, 
directly affects the efficacy of the products. The availability of racks, pallets, thermometers, fire 
extinguishers are essential for the storage of medicines.  
The storage conditions of public health facilities need improvement. It includes the improved 
knowledge of the staff and the storage condition etc. Although, the Punjab health departments 
have improved the storage conditions and equipment like AC, fridge etc. have been provided. 
Such facilities were only provided at district level while the BHUs or RHC store   also have need 
of these equipment. Vaccine was stored in recommended conditions. Chillers were provided at 
district level and ILR were provided at health facility level. Vaccine carrier boxes and ice packs 
were also provided to ensure the cool chain.  
The government of Sindh, has planned to establish one warehouse in each division, to improve 
the storage capacity of the medicines.
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
47
4.2.8.1	 Infrastructure of warehouses
The medicinal warehouses have been assessed to provide the baseline information of the 
storage conditions. Purpose built stores were rare, mostly, rooms were allotted as storage sites. 
Capacity of store rooms, for the health facilities were not enough to store the medicines as per 
recommended procedures. The structure of medicines store of district Kashmore Sindh and 
Rajanpur were not suitable to store the medicines. EDO health, LHW program of Kashmore 
have arranged a temporary store while Rajanpur is still using the same store.  The details are 
as follow:
4.2.8.2	 Good Storage Practices
The good storage practices, mainly depend upon the available resources and knowledge. The 
availability of a pharmacist for medicines management is a legal requirement. In Punjab, the 
Pharmacist are available in DHQ and THQ hospitals, where an   additional charge has been given 
to “District Quality Control officer” who is a pharmacist by profession. The post of pharmacist on 
central warehouse was not filled.  In Sindh, this responsibility is given to DDO or any doctor who 
is MBBS by profession.  The details of good storage practices are as follows,
Status of Storage Infrastructure in selected districts of Sindh and Punjab
100
80
60
40
20
0
Percentage
Sindh
Punjab
87
88
92
92
50
23
84
85
Designated
warehouse
Suitable Floor
Condition of 
building
Adequate capacity 
for medicines 
storage
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
Stock Handling in selected Districts of Sindh and Punjab
Percentage
Sindh
Punjab
61
92
11
8
71
54
3
8
55
58
Organized
Stock
exposed to
sunlight
Store room was 
cleasn & tidy
Direct Contact 
of medicines 
with walls
Stocks placed 
outside the store
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
48
120
100
80
60
40
20
0
Storage practices in selected Districts of Sindh and Punjab
Percentage
Sindh
Punjab
92
81
50
27
68
46
47
38
13
50
13
38
95
69
67
73
53
42
100
100
Window
W
Well venti-
lated
Fridge
Tem-
prature 
moni-
toring of 
fridge
Tem-
prature 
moni-
toring of 
room
Air Condi-
tioner
Fan
Electric 
bulbs
Racks
Pallets
4.2.9	
Section IX: Transportation / Distribution
In Punjab and Sindh, It has been observed, that in the public health department, Supply chain 
mechanism and transportation of medicines was a challenge. Although, the health department, 
either arranges vehicle from LHW programs or provides rental vehicles for the transportation of 
medicines; but such situation could not be handled when there is an emergency stock delivery. 
The overall expense for the distribution of medicines increased considerably. The techniques to 
calculate the quantities, that are required to be distributed, were not understood by the store 
keepers. The quantities of medicines should be calculated on the basis of morbidity to provide 
complete therapy of a disease. It was observed that the health facilities have ORS in the stock, 
but Zinc Syrup was not present and if it was available, the quantities were very low. It indicates 
that morbidity or STG were not taken in considerations before the distribution of medicines. 
The distribution of vaccine was through recommended vehicle and vaccine carrier boxes. 
In Sindh, PPP has arranged the private suppliers. They were responsible to deliver the 
medicines at district levels. At the district level, the organization managed medicines supplies 
from the district warehouse to the health facilities. The frequency of medicines supplies was 
based on the consumption and availability of space for storage, at each level. In the districts, 
the lead time of supply in PPHI was 2 to 3 days. PPHI, HANDS and IHS have its own vehicles 
(not specifically designed for medicines transportation) and medicines were distributed   in the 
vehicle; especially, in the districts there were no specific routes for the distribution of medicines. 
In Punjab, IRMNCH & NP has solved this issue by contracting a courier service for the supply of 
medicines. It was reported by the LHWs, that in the past they had to face the issues of medicines 
delivery. Delay was a common practice. . The transportation of medicines through courier has 
reduced the time of delivery; thus, the medicines will reach its destination in time.
4.2.10	 Section X: Organizational support for Logistics system
The organizational support for the logistics activity is an important component for smooth 
operations of supply chain management system. It was observed, that the communication 
system among the public health facilities at the district levels was either weak or ambiguous. 
There were no routine meetings of the logistics staff. Mostly, the communication is through 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
49
the submission of reports and/or feedbacks. There was no capacity building of staff to develop 
the skills for better and more effective supervisory visits. The supervisors have an empathic 
behavior toward the departmental negligence. During health department’s supervisors (DHO, 
coordinators etc.) visits, the coaching of health facility staff should be arranged. Such frequent 
coaching should be obligatory because it may help the on-job staff to develop the skills required 
for their employment.   
In Punjab, monitoring of the stock out status was reported by two systems; one was DHIS and 
second was MEAs. Health department has more trust on MEAs data. The process of medicines 
forecasting was introduced in e-procurement software which was accessible at regional level. 
During the medicines procurement meetings at secretory health office, the demands of 
districts and health facilities were refined, rationalized and submitted to the manufacturers. 
The argument of health facilities staff, that they receive less quantity of medicines was still not 
denied. .  
In Sindh, The Public health facilities lacked a well-defined system of medicines forecasting.  It 
lead to irrational demand of medicines, and a common argument made by health facility staff 
was, that they do not receive the quantity of medicines according to their requisitions.  Such 
issues were raised by the health facility staff during the supervisor’s visits.  
Conversely, the health facilities under the supervision of PPP, did receive the medicines 
according to their submitted demand. In the public and private partners, the health facilities 
did regular visits of   higher levels, in which Hand on trainings / on job coaching has been done.
4.2.11	 Section XI: Product use
All out efforts were made to improve the system, which ultimately, lead to the improvement of 
the availability of right drug, at right time in right dosage and frequency.  Irrational prescribing 
practices of the physicians may influence the whole efforts that were put in to improve the 
SCMS. 
The WHO always recommends and promotes the rational utilization of the drugs. In SCM, efforts 
made to promote the rational utilization of drugs are very important. There is a requirement to 
ensure the availability of STG at the service delivery site, to promote the understanding of STG, 
and increase the rational use of drugs. During the assessments, it has been observed that one 
of the major reasons of irrational use of medicines was, the unavailability of first line therapy. 
Physician has to move on to the second line therapy. It may increase the antibiotics resistance 
and the cost of therapy.
4.2.12	 Section XII: Patient Exit interviews
Total number of caretakers interview conducted were 73. It has been observed that the patients 
have the understanding of preparation of ORS and on further inquiring an impression was 
given that they know the preparation of ORS before coming to hospital. The Patients know that 
they have to prepare the medicines in boiled and cooled water while a small number of patients 
skipped the word cool. The dose and duration was also understood by the patients, although, 
some patient have the confusion of daily interval of the administration of medicines.
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
50
District 
Number of caretakers of 
patients interviewed
% of patient with correct 
understanding of
preparation of 
medicines
 correct dose and 
duration
Kashmore
11
91
82
Sukkur
10
90
90
Tando Muhammad Khan
8
88
88
Karachi Malir
7
86
86
Saheed Benazirabad
11
91
91
Muzaffarghar
8
88
88
Rajanpur
8
88
88
Pakpattan
10
90
90
4.2.13	 Section XIII: Private clinics and pharmacies
Prescribing practices (as asked from the physicians) was poly pharmacy. Physicians need 
complete understanding of the use of Zinc. There is no proper method defined for the disposal 
of clinic / hospital waste. It has been observed that the Zinc dispersible tablet was available in 
the market of District Pakpattan and Karachi. There was no shortage of medicines in the market 
especially in Punjab but there was a delay from the manufacturers in supply which indicates 
that the open market was the first priority area of the manufacturers. 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
51
0505
	
CONCLUSION
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
54
CONCLUSION
05
1.	
The health system of Pakistan is now devolved. The supply chain system of medicines is totally provincial 
subject. It was observed that overall the public health supply chain system in Pakistan was predominantly 
mixture of “push” and “pull” system. But in case of unavailability of demanded medicines it becomes “Push” 
system. 
2.	
Successful development and implementation of inventory management software will facilitate the LMIS and 
the barriers in report submission could be resolved. It will lead to better healthcare service delivery and 
access to medicine.  In Punjab, prescription management information system, linked with LMIS is likely to 
produce more information for analysis including prescription behavior.  
3.	
Many online links are required to develop LMIS and DHIS integration. In DHIS reports quantities of tracer 
medicines were not shared.  On the other hand, DoH does not have web based / computerized inventory 
management system. As a result, different master sheets with different SoPs may create difficulties in 
synchronizing   the data, particularly in converting it to useful information.
4.	
The medicines forecasting and quantification should be based on the WHO recommendations to minimize 
the stock-outs. The gap of availability of tracer medicines should be covered.  
5.	
The capacity of medicines stores at health facility level are enough for medicines supplies. The staff members 
who were handling the pharmaceuticals were not capable enough to understand and implement the WHO 
recommendations. Pharmacists were not frequently available for handling the medicines as per WHO 
recommendations. 
6.	
 The distribution of medicines from district warehouse to health facilities were not based on any forecast 
criteria. Medicines were not distributed in the form of therapies / courses / kits rather unjustified proportions 
of medicines were distributed. Department of health do not have suitable vehicles for pharmaceutical 
transportation which creates hurdle in distribution plans.     
7.	
The process of prequalification of manufacturers was not up to the mark.  It does not accurately judge the 
production capacity of manufacturer due to which medicines were not supplied within the duration of sixty 
day time period. The delayed supplies, thus, exerts an extra burden on medicines SCMS. 
0606
	
LESSONS LEARNED
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
58
LESSONS LEARNED
06
The lessons learned from the study are as follows
1.	
Department of health and vertical programs have their own logistics management information systems 
which were designed according to their needs. The process of integration of LMIS with revised DHIS will be a 
challenging activity which require continuous technical and financial support.  
2.	
The process of registration of new generic or formulation with DRAP is time taking process. The national 
pharmaceutical manufacturers are least interested in production of medicines whose market is not developed. 
3.	
Supply chain activities are interdependent with each other. Performance of one activity affects the others.
0707
RECOMMENDATIONS
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
62
RECOMMENDATIONS
07
7.1.1	
Immediate Recommendations
1.	
The health facilities should be provided a computerized / android LMIS, for inventory of 
tracer elements on immediate basis. The data should be compiled on daily basis. The 
inventory software should be capable to provide an automated stock out reports, expiry 
calendar, medicines forecasting, distribution and reorders.  
2.	
Based on the morbidity data and stock out reports, the medicines forecasting should use 
mix method to compare consumption method with morbidity method.  Apart from that, 
the members of the procurement committee, physicians; with strong clinical knowledge 
and Hospital pharmacist should also be included for data collection and decisions. 
3.	
Immediate steps should be taken for strengthening of DTL of Sindh; for quality assurance 
of medicines procured for public health facilities. 
4.	
The basic technology and support process for integration of LMIS with revised DHIS should 
be planned and designed. It should be aligned with continuous financial and technical 
support for implementation and maintenance. The plan should comprehend data mapping, 
system synchronization, software updates and customization. It should address other 
system disruption and stakeholder’s communication.  The WHO definitions of “opening 
stock balance”, “stock out” and “stock on hand” should be used to create harmony and 
synchronization of LMIS with revised DHIS.  
5.	
As an interim measure, a master list of health facilities, commodities etc. of partners, 
stakeholder and others who support the cause for Diarrhea and Pneumonia should be 
shared and synchronized till the interoperability layer can be added.  
6.	
Based on WHO recommendations, Zinc DT should be used instead of Zinc syrup for the 
treatment of Diarrhea.  WHO recommendations should be followed, in LHW kits, Zinc syrup 
should be replaced with Zinc DT; along with easy handling of kit, and accuracy of dose 
will also be increased. It will help to reduce the transportation cost.  The stock levels and 
consumption of Zinc supplement and Amoxicillin suspension should be monitored by LHW 
program LMIS.  
7.	
The distribution of medicine should be in the form of complete courses or Kits so that 
the STG should be followed. Medicines transportation system should be outsourced to 
companies like IRMNCH & NP in Punjab.   
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
63
7.1.2	
 Medium term Recommendations 
1.	
The integration process should be launched in 
the meeting with the stakeholders and should 
continue to have the follow up meetings on regular 
basis in order to share the updates. Memorandum 
of Understanding should be developed among 
stakeholders for daily data-sharing interface 
between LMIS and revised DHIS. Stakeholders 
should be engaged with diverse expertise of clinical 
health practitioner, pharmacist and statistician 
representing all the level of health system to 
develop a knowledge base and make it available 
on the dashboard.
2.	
During the consultation with the stakeholders, key 
performance indicators should be finalized and 
should be regularly monitored. This can be more 
helpful for further investigation and integration.   
3.	
In integrated LMIS and DHIS, STG should be 
incorporated to develop an automated morbidity 
based method for medicines forecasting.   
4.	
The process of registration of Amoxicillin DT and Co-
packaging of Lo-ORS and Zinc DT with DRAP should 
consider the helpful provision of law; as stated in 
2. (v) and 2. (ix). The minutes of 265th meeting of 
Registration Board case no. 3 i.e. registration of 
7.1% chlorhexidine digluconate gel. On submission 
of satisfactory documents by the firm 7.1% 
Chlorhexidine digluconate gel has been registered. 
United States Pharmacopeia (Pakistan) should be 
involved in the process of registration. It will be 
helpful for the firm to achieve GMP standards and 
submission of required stability studies.           
7.1.3	
Long term Recommendations
1.	
The software like “Prescription management 
Information System” has advantages over inventory 
management system but it should be modified and 
upgraded to computerized physician order entry 
software (CPOES) approach.  Such software can 
inform the physician while prescribing medicines 
about the safety of medicine during pregnancy 
or lactation, therapeutic dose, drug allergy, 
side effects, drug-drug interaction, drug-food 
interaction etc. Adverse Drug Reactions Reports 
should also be included in it. 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
64
2.	
At DHQs and THQs, the availability of pharmacist showed better SCMS. Considering the number 
of outpatients or services delivered from RHC, Pharmacist should be provided to look after the 
pharmaceutical activities and facilitate the nearby BHUs. 
3.	
The capacity of warehouses should be improved by purpose built warehouses or by providing racks 
suitable for large warehouse. Technical knowledge based on WHO recommendations of “Good 
Storage Practices” should be given to the warehouse staff for the handling of medicines. 
08
annexures 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
68
World ealth organization define logistics has developed from an art of supply and maintenance in to scientific 
discipline involving the utilization management principles. Logistics for peripheral health facility as provision of 
activities including  planning, budgeting, receiving and inspection, storage, inventory control, supply, distribution 
and transport, maintenance and repair, communications, environmental management of health facilities, record 
and reporting, supervision and logistics training [4].
WHO estimates that in Low and middle income countries on an average there is about 35% in public health 
facilities and 65% in private sector, stated in Millennium Development Goals 2008. In LMIC where the buying 
power of medicines is very less which creates a barrier in access to essential medicines which led them to private 
informal sector of medicines especially in rural areas. It has also observed that inappropriate prescription and 
dispensing of medicines also prevails which also led to the gaps is access of essential medicines [5]. 
World Health Organization described that one of the key component of the functioning of health system is 
provision of access to affordable, appropriate and high quality medicines. The access of essential medicines is 
the outcome of integration of finance, planning, service delivery, and information management and governance 
system [6].  
Pakistan’s National Essential Medicines list has been prepared based on the WHO essential medicines list. EDL 
first version was published in 1995 and subsequently reviewed in 2000, 2003, and 2007 and now latest version has 
been published in 2016. It consists of 415 total molecules. 23 medicines were added as supplementary medicines 
which are based on the expert technical group recommendations to provide the wider range of medicines to 
meet the urgent needs. Selection of essential medicines for the Procurement is based upon the NEML 2016, for 
conveniences the list of EM has been arranged according to service delivery levels [7].
The access of essential medicines in public health facilities is of the major challenges [8]. The Generic Drug Act 
was introduced in 1972 to improve the access of essential medicines but it was opposed by the commercial sector 
[9]. The Drug Act 1976 currently regulates the pharmaceutical sector and is a comprehensive document setting 
out extensive stipulations for industry licensing, drug registration, quality control etc. However implementation 
of the act is loosely monitored and creates space for abuse [8]. Due to the weakness of the drug act malpractices 
of distribution chains has been observed [9] and it is also described in Pakistan Medical and Dental Council 
2011 report that due to the absence of the drug act for the promotion of the medicines to the prescriber and 
its implementation. Receiving of gifts and benefits were not well covered. It has promoted the irrational use 
of medicines the procurement list of the public sector in Punjab is a Generic list which promotes the healthy 
competition in commercial sector. 
The healthcare department of Punjab has been divided into two departments that is Primary and Secondary 
Healthcare Department (P&SHD) and Specialized Healthcare and Medical Education Department. P&SHD is 
responsible for vertical programs and health facilities including DHQ, THQ, RHC hospitals, BHUs and dispensaries. 
In principal for the procurement of selected essential medicines for the districts DGHS strictly followed the PPRA 
rules. District Government Punjab authorized the concern Health Department for the procurement of the selected 
medicines for DHQ, THQ, RHC and BHUs in Punjab and Additional Director Health Services (MS&DC) submitted 
their demand to DGHS which then advertised the invitation for bids in the Newspaper. DGHS on receiving the 
prequalification documents select analyze it and select the firm for bids. Than DGHS issued the notification of 
award/advance acceptance of tender (AAT) and subsequently contract and purchase order against the finalized 
rates by Health Department after the receipt of performance security in the form of an irrevocable bank guarantee. 
The upper limit of the ordered quantities should not exceed the demand submitted by DGHS and subsequently 
advertised in the bidding documents. On receiving the stock DGHS after confirmation of quantities and quality 
distribute the stocks in districts. The procedures strictly followed the PPRA rules; it is required to see in-depth 
situation analysis for the selection of medicines for the treatment of diseases, method of forecasting of demand 
and methodology of distribution of items. In districts purchase committee also exist which also follow the PPRA 
annex 1: Desk Review
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
69
rules for the purchase of medicines. The in-depth situation analysis is required to see the policies and regulations 
for the selection, procurement and distribution of essential medicines at provincial and district levels.      
Specialized healthcare and Medical education department has also launched web-based medicines inventory 
management software which is temporarily share with the hospitals for learning purposes and instruction has 
been given for the entry of the medicines of local purchase (LP) of each tertiary care hospital at Lahore. Software 
is of basic level having “Medicines Dashboard” which gives quick access to near expiry medicines. The “Medicines 
Management” field keeps the inventory record of the medicines batch and expiry wise. It also facilitates the 
hospitals for transfer of stock from one hospital to another. 
Health system of Pakistan provides care to children suffered from diarrhea and pneumonia also through Lady 
Health workers and Lady Health supervisors (LHS) programs. Even in presence of these services diarrhea and 
pneumonia causes 27% of all deaths in children under five in Pakistan. In project “Nigraan” a qualitative study 
has been conducted to explore the role of LHW’s and LHS’s motivation level in District Badin of Sind province 
of Pakistan and also to assessed the knowledge and skills regarding iCCM of diarrhea and pneumonia. It has 
been observed that there was lack of knowledge of diarrhea and pneumonia case management in which lack 
of knowledge to prepare the ORS was also reported. LHW has also reported that lack of availability of essential 
medicines and commodities for diarrhea and pneumonia case management is the major reason of their 
demotivation. They also mentioned that availability of essential medicines will improve their credibility in the 
community. Medicines management required effective inventory management reporting for the replenishment 
of the medicines. Feedback provided by the LHWs showed that they were not comfortable with written reports 
which may be cause hindrance in stock reporting. [10]
According to Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) 2014 Sindh described that in diarrhea management many 
deaths can be prevented by use of ORS or recommended home fluid (RHF) and Zinc Supplementation reduces 
the reoccurrence of episodes. It has been reported that the overall period-prevalence of diarrhea in children 
under five years of age is 28.4% while the highest period-prevalence is seen among the children age 12 to 23 
months which grossly correspond to weaning period. The care seeking behavior for diarrhea was more common 
for younger as compare to older children. 72.8% of children age 0-11 months received the treatment from HF 
compared with 62.6% of children age 48-59 months. Survey report stated that Children under five who received 
ORS were 54.5% while who received both ORS or RHF and Zinc were 11.6%. In Sindh 14% of children suffered from 
diarrhea do not received any treatment of diarrhea (MICS 2014, Sindh). 
Punjab Public Health Sector Strategy (PPHSS) 2012-2020 stated that the public health facilities of Punjab have 
issues in supply chain, lack of quantification skills, procurement and budget issues, lack of storage spaces and 
delay supplies which results in frequent stock outs of essential medicines health facilities. The strategy has sets 
its goals to make sure that there must be periodic review of Essential Drug List (EDL) and system of essential 
medicines supplies should be improve at the level that there must be not stock out at BHU, RHC and SHC hospitals. 
Key performance indicators were also set for the inclusion of Zinc and pediatric formulation of amoxicillin in 
essential drug list of LHWs.    
The use of ORS and Zinc Supplementation was well accepted for the reduction of use of antibiotics. The 
interventions such as diarrhea pack through community health workers in community settings. The effectiveness 
of the provision of the diarrhea pack has been reported as effective that it should be scaled up at national level. [11]
The study of Akbar Pardhan described that the Matiari district has sound implementation potential; however, 
bottlenecks at health care facility and at health care management level have badly constrained the implementation 
process. An interdependency exists among the constraining factors, such as lack of sound planning resulting in 
unclear understanding of the strategy; leading to ambiguous roles and responsibilities among stakeholders which 
manifest as inadequate availability of supplies and drugs at PHC facilities. Addressing these barriers is likely to 
have a cumulative effect on facilitating IMCI implementation. On the basis of these findings, we recommend 
that the provincial department of health and provincial Maternal Neonatal and Child Health (MNCH) program 
jointly assess the situation and streamline IMCI implementation in the district through sound planning, training, 
supervision, and logistic support. [12] “The Institutional Assessment of UNICEF Supply Division’s Forecasting 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
70
Process” described in its final report that the demand planning plays a critical role in ensuring that supplies reach 
the right place, at the right time, in the right quantity and at the right price. Mostly used forecasting procedures 
are the demand from the government (government request) which comes in the form of bulk orders which 
stretched the supply chain system. According to the UNICEF report the forecasting of medicines become important 
component to manage the smooth supply chain operations. The forecasting at government level should be with 
sufficient timelines to support other SCM operations. 
The USAID funded Deliver Project “Supply Chain Evolution” described the framework of the Supply Chain 
Strengthening of Developing countries Public Health Sector. The project report described that the development 
and improvement in the supply chain management system of the public sector of developing country it is 
necessary to describe the existing level of the supply chain management system which ranges from “ad hoc level” 
to “extended level”. In extended level of supply chain management system the extended stages, health system 
managers increasingly understand how their system operates, ways to use resources more efficiently, how to 
manage and align supply chain actors to achieve common goals, and, ultimately, ways to interact more effectively 
with the broader environment in which the supply chain is situated.  
In Pakistan there is considerable work has been done for the policy legislation and regulation of medicines. Access 
of medicines is included the policy and regulation but still there are gaps that exist in policy and practices. These 
gaps are due to weak implementation and lack of monitoring procedures. It has also observed that one of the 
reasons of the lack of implementation on the policies is government traditional tilt of policies towards punitive 
actions rather than cooption of other stakeholders towards practitioner’s regulation [8] and it has also been 
observed in the recent drug act given by the Punjab government. 
In pharmaceutical market of Pakistan commercial sector is considered as more active in terms of drug information 
rather than public sectors. It has been observed that on request of the doctors about the drug information from 
mix of 45 multinational and local companies only 26% letters has been received out of which only 15% met the 
WHO criteria for optimal drug information center [hafeez and mirza 1999]. 
The reporting mechanism of Adverse Drug Reactions (ADR) is considerably week. There are many parameters due 
to which the reporting of the ARD is not sufficient to support promote the drug information. Even in some studies 
it has been observed that the medical professionals are not well aware of the term or if aware were not know the 
process of reporting the ADR.  
A cross sectional study conducted to identify the influences of the availability of essential medicines for the 
community management childhood illness in Central Ugrnada has mentioned that the uninterrupted supply of 
medicines to treat children <5 years with pneumonia, diarrhea and malaria depends on the timely submission 
of the reports showing the utilization of medicines for the purpose of the replenishment. Innovative ways of 
monitoring of the stock levels may improve the monitoring and availability of medicines which is an important 
factor for the community health workers to manage the pneumonia and diarrhea.  [13]
In achieving the Millennium Development Goals of UN lack of educated staff is one of the major barriers. The lack 
of pharmacist is one of the reason to achieve the goals of medicines supply chain management. MSC not under 
the supervision of pharmacist or even the person having required pharmacy knowledge has caused hurdles 
in operations of smooth supply chain management of medicines. The training of health personal on essential 
medicines supply chain management should be done to improve the availability of medicines. [14]
Maintaining of adequate supply of essential medicines at the health facility level is the backbone of the success 
of management of any particular disease. Maintaining the stock level in the health facility is a challenging task. An 
innovative idea to monitor the stock and timely and effectively reporting system contributes a lot to support the 
disease management. A pilot project for the improvement of the essential medicines supplies for the malaria has 
introduces the mobile text reporting system, named “SMS for life” has worked well to improve the availability of 
medicines for malaria in health facility. The study reports that good visibility of the stock level’s reports submitted 
timely has the major factor to reduce the stock-out conditions in the health facility [15]
Health system delivery systems like, Philippines,  constantly challenged by the disasters and emergencies where 
existing laws, national policies and regulations covers critical aspects of medicines management including 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
71
quantification, warehousing, distribution, utilization monitoring and disposal of medicines even then due the 
lacking of the implementation is a hurdle in supply chain management of medicines. The additional supplies of 
medicines during the disasters increased the intensity of mismanagement [16]. Increasing the quantities of the 
medicines in the weak supply chain management of the medicines creates more SCM issues. It is necessary to 
improve the SCM hurdles and bottle necks for the batter access of medicines for patients in the health facilities.  
The Integrated Management of Childhood Illness (IMCI) was developed by the WHO and UNICEF aimed to reduce 
childhood morbidity and mortality. In Tanzania it was introduces in 1996 and then expend to all districts of the 
country. The cross-sectional study with sample size of 95 healthcare workers described the improvement in 
the essential medicines supplies and monitoring of utilization has played a vital role in implementation of IMCI 
services [17]. It is necessary not only to improve the quantities of medicines but also the monitoring of rational 
utilization. Government of Punjab and Sindh has made many efforts to improve the access of medicines for 
patients, it is necessary to analyze the rational utilization of medicines.  
Access to medicines from health system perspective was studied by Alliance for Health Policy and System 
Research, World Health Organization. The study sates that the most health system strengthening interventions 
ignore the interconnections between system components specially the complex relationships between the 
essential medicines and health financing, HR, Health Information and health service delivery were not given 
sufficient considerations. Findings of the study recommend that the accesses to medicines barriers are complex 
and interconnected as they occur at multiple levels of health system. A holistic view of demand side constrains 
with multiple and dynamic relationship between medicines and other health system resources should be applied. 
It has mentioned that the determinants of access to medicines are in national, regional and international contexts.
[18] The objectives of the consultancy will cover the aspects of National, Provincial, District and Sub-district levels 
of medicines supply chain management. The indicators used for the monitoring covers the interconnections of 
the SCMS. 
The irrational or non-scientific forecasting and quantification of essential medicines leads to loss of medicines by 
over stocking or expiry or on other hand causes the stock out. This situation has described by the study conducted 
in 2014 in Tanzania. It stated that the integrated logistic system was not adequately addressed accountability 
concerns under the “push” or kit system. The weaknesses of the quantification have led the frequent stock out of 
antimalarial medicines and ORS. The study proposed the regular reconciliation between the health information 
system and the medicines delivery system which not only improve the availability of essential medicines but also 
guide for the interventions for further improvement of access of essential medicines .[19]
Most common method of medicines forecasting is consumption based which is also used public health facilities 
of Pakistan. To improve the access of medicines the consumption based methodology should be applied with its 
all technical aspects. Technical Resource Facility plus (TRF+) has conducted the developed the user friendly tool 
for medicines forecasting and quantification and training for 36 districts of Punjab has been conducted in which 
DDO, Pharmacist and computer operators were trained. Later Primary and Secondary Health Care Department 
of Government of Punjab has introduces its computerized logistic management information system and claim 
that system has ability to forecast medicines. In-depth situation analysis is required to see the efficiency of the 
forecasting and quantification.  
The supplies of essential medicines under the supervision of pharmacist have shown better results. The access of 
medicines has been improved at rural hospitals of Australia. [20]
According to “Bureau of Statics of Pakistan” about 22% population of Pakistan use Public health facilities to get 
health services. The high competencies of the services provided and the availability of essential medicines at 
health facilities played an important role in the utilization of health services and the as well as to promote the 
better clinical outcomes. [21]
The SDG 3 presented by UN emphasizes the need of access of quality treatment within the affordable cost. 
The price of medicines is one of the interventions to control the cost of the treatment. In Pakistan, the prices of 
hundreds of essential and life-saving medicines have increased greatly, making them unaffordable to residents 
with low and middle incomes. [22]
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
72
1.1	
Section I: Policy, Legislation and Regulation
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
FATA 
1 
Is there National drug Policy 
document 
 
Yes, there is a Pakistan National Drug Policy document.  
2 
Does the national drug policy 
contain the written guidelines for 
donation of the products? 
 
No, the National drug policy has not clarified the guidelines for donation of the products.  
3 
Is duty taxes imposed on 
imported drugs or products 
 
No, the duties and taxes are not imposed on finished good of the pharmaceuticals.  
4 
Are donated commodities 
exempted from duty taxes 
 
 
Yes, the medicines for donation are exempted from duty and taxes. According to the Gazette notification 
SRO 586(1)/2015.  In the exercise of powers, conferred by the section 36. of  Drug  Act, 1976(XXXI of 
1976), Federal Government has exempted the duties and taxes on any drug imported as a donation by 
any agency from provision of sub-clause (vii) of clause (a) of subsection (1) of section 23 of said act, for a 
period of one year with effect from 16th April 2015.  
 
5 
How new product or formulation 
get registered? 
 
Registration of drug with DRAP is based on the public interest, safety and efficacy guidelines. It also depends 
on the manufacturing capability of manufacturer who was submitting the documents for the registration of 
product.  
6 
Are there laws and regulations 
that promote the importation or 
local production of the health 
commodities being assessed? If 
yes, give examples. 
1 
 
According to Gazette Notification “Any drug to be imported as donation by any agency in Pakistan, is 
conditionally exempted from section 23(1)(a)(vii) (Import, manufacture and sale of drugs/Registration) 
for a period of 1 year with effect from 16.04.2015 vide SRO. 586 (I)/2015 dated 12.06.2015.” 
 
 Such exemption was notified earlier for a period of 5 years vide SRO. 334 (I)/2010 dated 13.05.2010, for 
5 years i.e. 16.04.2005 vide SRO. 439 (I)/2005 dated 12.05.2005 and for 5 years with effect from 
15.04.2000 was notified vide SRO. 260 (I)/2000 dated 08.05.2000. 
ANNEX 2: FINDINGS
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
73
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
FATA 
6 
 
1 
 
The  notifications such as  [including SRO. 330 (I)/95 dated 19.04.1995, SRO. 218 (I)/90 dated 04.02.1990, 
SRO. 1124 (I)/84 dated 20.12.1984 (each of 5 years’ exemption) was  provided on Clientele demand. 
 
Drug Act 1976, Chapter 4 “Administration and Enforcement” described “regulation and prohibition of 
import etc. of drugs” point number 2.b states  that the drug or a class of drug specified in the notification 
shall not be import except by an agency of the Government so specified. 
7 
Are there laws and regulations 
that hinder the importation or 
local production of the health 
commodities being assessed?  
1 
 
Drug Act 1976, Chapter 4 “Administration and Enforcement” described “regulation and prohibition of 
import etc. of drugs”. According to this drug act,   only such drug shall be imported which are on sale in 
the market of any of the Western European countries, USA, Japan, Australia, or any other country as may 
be prescribed. 
 
Production of Amoxicillin DT and Combo pack of ORS plus zinc syrup has regulatory issues of production.   
8 
Are there policies or other 
restrictions that limit or 
encourage client access to 
services or commodities? 
1 
Provincial health strategies encourage the client access to services and commodity availability.  
  
If no, skip to question 19. 
  
The indicator is related to the Drug Regulator Authority of Pakistan and laws are implemented to all, so equal 
weightage is given to all. 
9 
How are policymakers engaged in 
improving access to health 
commodities? 
  
By improving the availability of medicines at health facilities (in all provinces) particularly, in Punjab, to 
inform the public through TV and Print Media. They should be informed about the availability of free of cost 
high quality medicines at public health facilities.  Sindh government, has focused on improving the supplies of 
medicines and they had planned to establish one warehouse in each division to ensure continuous supplies.  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
74
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa 
FATA 
 
 
  
In Baluchistan, the procurement of quality medicines has been focused.  This goal was achieved by infiltration of spurious 
drugs. The process was strictly monitored; and information of arresting the culprits has been shared in the papers, to build the 
confidence of public.  
The efforts to put more medicines in the supply system at  provincial level  are as follows  
Punjab: The primary and secondary healthcare process,   a high quality medicines procurement was major focus.  The 
budgetary gap created, due to varied prices of previous manufacturers and currently manufacturers was filled. The 
temperature controlling system of the warehouses was upgraded, although, a lot of work is still required to maintain the 
standard.  The supply process of IRMNCH & NP has improved. The morbidity of the hospitals were considered. The allocation 
of the budget for medicines procurement is accurately provisioned.   DHQ & THQs, however, were still not satisfied with the 
distribution of the budgets. Improvement is observed in LMIS, prescription management information system, introduced by 
Health Information and Service Delivery Unit (HISDU) though computerized software in specialized healthcare department.   
KP: The medicines forecasting and quantification was focused, and the strengthening of supply chain management system was 
done through the staffing of logistics.  
Baluchistan: In order to ensure the procurement of quality medicine, government of Baluchistan, has procured the medicines 
centrally. These medicines, were later supplied to PPHI.  
FATA: as per the information shared, that, FATA agencies need strengthening and capacity building in terms of access to 
medicines. The department has requested  UNICEF, to extend its services in FATA, in terms of provisioning of medicines and 
capacity building 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
75
1.2	 Section II: Product Selection
 
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
1 a. Is there an essential 
services package?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
b. If yes, what services are 
included? 
 
The services are Immunization, Antenatal , Natal and postnatal  Care, Inter-natal care, Prevention of STI and RTI, 
FP service, Major Micronutrient deficiencies, mental health, screening, outreach services for all levels of health 
facilities 
2 Is there a national essential 
drug list?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
3 Are all products in the supply 
chain being assessed included 
on the essential drug list? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
4 Are all the commodities used 
in this health program on the 
essential drug list?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
5 What criteria are used to 
select a product for the list? 
 
The criteria for the selection of products are according to WHO guidelines which is disease burden. 
 
6 To which levels of the system 
is the national essential drugs 
list officially distributed? 
 
The National Essential List is uploaded on the website of Drug Regulator Authority of Pakistan. 
7 Is the list used for product 
selection and ordering 
commodities? If yes, explain 
how it is used. 
 
List is used to prepare the provincial list of essential medicines for health packages 
8 Other comments on product 
selection: 
 
The selected products are used for the preparation of Central rate contract list in all provinces 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
76
1.3	 Section III: Organization and Staffing
 
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
1 
Does the provincial level 
have a logistics 
management unit?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
y 
 
 
Logistics Management Unit (LMU):  
According to WHO, LMU, is a management structure that can be used to organize, monitor and support all the 
activities within the logistics system. Through the lens of continuous improvement, LMU can identify the Supply 
Chain problems, develops solution for those problems and implement those interventions. LMU is an important 
link between different organizations, levels, and actors within the supply chain. 
  Sindh:  
LMUs are available at the district level under the supervision of DHOs. An Integrated LMU at Provincial 
level is not available, whereas, the PPP of the Sindh has LMUs which are indirectly supporting the 
government health facilities within their scope of work; as described in their contracts.  
  Punjab:  
LMU is available (e-Procurement and Inventory Management Unit) it looks after the procurement and 
availability of the medicines at the district warehouse, however, it has not been established completely. 
It was done in order to establish the link and to monitor the work under progress. The rest of Logistics 
role is served by the district under the supervision of CEO.  
  Baluchistan:  
MSD and PPHI collectively provide the responsibility of LMU. The role of MSD is in the procurement of 
medicines, while rest of all the activities like distribution, inventory management etc. has been done by 
PPHI.  
  KP: 
Logistics management Unit is available and the district level staff is also provided.  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
77
 
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
  FATA: 
LMU is not available   
For DHQ of Sindh and Punjab hospital level teams are available.  
  
If no, please check NO in 
questions 2 a–h. 
  
DHQ hospitals have DDO power, and they have autonomy to purchase the medicines from their own budget. The 
orders are placed directly to the manufacturers.  
Punjab: PSHC Department procurement cell was directed through its office. The Office monitors the medicines 
supplies, procurement etc. Whereas, the Tertiary care hospitals are working under the supervision of Secretory 
Specialized Healthcare. They have their own Procurement and Logistic management Unit.   
In KP it is the Procurement cell and the Medicines Coordination cell (MCC)  
2 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Is the logistics management unit fully responsible for the following activities? (If not, note the departments or positions responsible for each logistics 
task.) 
a. managing and using the 
logistics management 
information system? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
b. forecasting quantities 
needed? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
c. procurement? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
d. inventory management, 
storage, and distribution? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
e. product selection? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
f. staffing of logistics 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
78
 
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
positions? 
g. budgeting for the logistics 
system? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
h. supervision and logistic 
staff development?  
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
  
  Sindh: 
The LMU at the district levels, uses LMI for product selection, forecasting, procurement, inventory 
management, storage and distribution. The allocated budget for HR and logistics is not directly linked with it.  
The selection of the product and forecasting is more with opinion of in-charge health facilities and DHO. 
  Punjab: 
The e-procurement unit and the inventory management unit facilitates in the preparation of rational 
demands. The rationalization of demands is based on the forecasting and availability of the allocated 
budgets.  
  Vertical program the products already been selected by the vertical program, so there is no role LMU in this 
regard.   
  
The districts manage the logistics through their store keeper, who works as logisticians, other than regional / 
provincial positions. . They have limited knowledge and capabilities for handling storage and distribution of 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
79
 
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
medicines. The technical aspects, like, product selection was done by the MO of health facilities and forecasting 
by purchase committee under the supervision of DHO.  In the Civil Hospitals or DHQs, such activities are under 
the supervision of purchase committee including Hospital Pharmacist  
3 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Are there documented guidelines for: 
a. managing and using the 
logistics management 
information system? 
0.25 
Y  
Y  
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
b. forecasting quantities 
needed? 
0.25 
Y  
Y  
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
N 
Y  
N 
c. procurement? 
0.25 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
d. inventory management, 
storage, and distribution?  
0.25 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
e. product selection? 
0.25 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
f. staffing of logistics 
positions? 
0.25 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
g. budgeting for the logistics 
system? 
0.25 
Y  
Y  
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
h. supervision and staff 
development?  
0.25 
Y  
Y  
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y  
Y  
N 
  
  
The documented guidelines are in the form of official letters, LMIS templates, software information, training 
documents etc.  
Sindh:  
SOP or guidelines for medicines forecasting and quantifications were not provided.  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
80
 
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
Punjab: 
SOP (based on WHO guidelines) has been provided to all districts through PSPU with the support of TRF plus in 
the form of forecasting and quantification tool.  And after the establishment of Primary and Secondary 
healthcare Department the system has been modified and incorporated in the e-procurement.  
IRMNCH & NP has recently modified the SCM system and quantities of medicines because LHWs have increased. 
In future, the Forecasting is planned l be based on the updates of the modified quantities.   
 
In Sindh almost all the BHUs are handed over to PPP (except in Shaheed Benazirablad and Karachi), they facilitate 
the government for the product selection, forecasting, procurement, distribution inventory management, 
storage, staffing for logistics, financing for logistics and supervision. The government of Sindh procures medicines 
for THQ / RHCs (not handed over to I H S). As the PPP are facilitating the government so their strengths and 
capabilities   are tend to be reflected as government services.   
KP: 
Under the supervision of Procurement and MCC and with the support of TRF plus, the health department has 
developed the forecasting guidelines and computerized tool while the trainings are planned to be conducted in 
few months.   
In Baluchistan and FATA, the convention method of forecasting (consumption based) is used, which does not 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
81
 
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
fulfill the WHO standards. In Baluchistan, the health department, through its MSD and PPHI, provide the services 
of Logistics Management.  The MSD, is mainly responsible for Procurement and PPHI is responsible for product 
Selection, forecasting, inventory management, distribution, Logistics budgeting, staffing and supervision.   
IRMNCH & NP Punjab has recently upgraded the system of medicines supply, which is done through courier 
services. The provided courier services is directed to LHWs and the product selection SOP is through EPHS.  
4 
Is there a central-level 
position dedicated to 
logistics?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
If no, skip to question 6. 
  
  In Sindh, central level position is at district levels.  
  In Punjab, e-procurement and inventory management cell. While DHQs are liked through computerized 
medicines management software.  
  In Baluchistan, where MSD is responsible to procure the medicines, which are then handed over to PPHI for 
further Logistics arrangements. The Store keeper was provided central logistics services. 
  In KP through LMU while FATA central position is managed by its agencies.  
5 
Does the logistics officer(s) 
have the same level of 
authority for decision 
making as other functional 
unit heads? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
82
 
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
6 
What activities are used to coordinate key logistics tasks among those responsible for logistics? (mark the appropriate) 
none 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
formal meetings 
  
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
joint work plans 
  
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
written communications 
  
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
department meetings 
  
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
7 
How many personnel 
positions have key logistics 
tasks? 
  
  Sindh:  
DHO, Store Keeper is at the district level while at the DHQ Hospital there are Hospital Pharmacists and 
Store Keepers  
  Punjab: 
The additional Secretory Technical supervising, e-procurement and inventory management and of the 
Districts, DHO and store keepers. In DHQs,  Pharmacist and Logistics officers are serving these 
responsibilities  
  National Program / IRMNCH & NP: Logistics Coordinator at the provincial level, Store Keeper at the 
District level,            
  District Office:  DHO and Store Keeper,                
  KP:  
Medicines coordinator at the provincial level, Logisticians, at the district level and store keeper on all 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
83
 
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
warehouses.   
  Baluchistan Provincial level: Store keeper MSD, District: Store keeper,  
  FATA: DHO and Store Keeper, Agency: Store keepers 
8 
How many of the positions 
with key logistics tasks are 
currently filled? If they are 
not filled, why not?  
  
In Punjab, Hiring of Logistics officers at DHQ and THQ was in progress. 
 In other provinces, the position for the key logistics was filled, regardless of their capabilities.   
10 
Does the logistics system 
have a strategic plan that 
covers the next 1–3 years?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
11 
What issues outside the 
supply chain impact the 
functioning of the supply 
chain? 
  
Transporter strikes.  
The Delays of supplies from the manufacturers,  
Delay of the budget release,  
 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
84
1.4	 Section IV: Logistics management Information System (LMIS)
 
Indicators 
 Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
1 
Is there a logistics 
management information 
system?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
2 
Does the information system (LMIS, HMIS, other) include: 
  
a. stock keeping records 
(e.g., inventory control 
cards, bin cards, stock 
registers) at all levels?  
0.4 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
b. requisition and issue 
records (e.g., bills of lading, 
shipping records, 
requisition/issue broachers) 
at all Levels? 
0.4 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
C. dispensed to user record 
at service delivery point? 
0.4 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
d. summaries of 
consumption data at levels 
above service delivery 
points (e.g., districts, 
regions, central, etc.)? 
0.4 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
e. stock on hand? 
0.4 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
85
 
Indicators 
 Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
4 
Do information system reports at all levels of the system show: 
  
a. inventory balance (stock 
on hand)? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
b. quantity dispensed or 
issued during a specified 
reporting period? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
c. losses and adjustments? 
1 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
d. quantities received? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
  
  
  Sindh:  
In addition to the operating manual system, recently, LHWs Program has developed computerized 
Logistics Management Information System reflecting the stocks. .  
  Punjab:  
A Primary and Secondary Healthcare is working on the development of online medicines inventory 
management system while specialized healthcare has developed and implement the online software.  
  Baluchistan, KP & FATA  
Is working on manual system  
  The LSAT marks is based on the availability of information and its utilization either by manual or 
computerized system.  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
86
 
Indicators 
 Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
6 
Do LMIS or other 
information system reports 
received at the central level 
provide information on 
stock status at the health 
facility level? Please explain. 
  
The stock status means, that  the central-level staff have accurate routine information on which facilities are 
stocked out, under stocked, adequately stocked, or overstocked 
 
  According to the Logistics Management Information system, in the provinces, the health facilities have to 
submit their monthly stock status to the district office. Which is not a regular practice of many provinces. 
In routine, the health facility share the stock status at the time of submission of medicines requisition. 
Stock out status of very essential medicines (tracer elements) through DHIS.  
  DHIS: in all provinces report stock out status of tracer medicines  
  PPP are regularly (monthly basis) submitting their stock status.  
  Punjab: 
Health facility monitoring through MEAs, also report the stock out of tracer elements.  
8 
How do managers monitor 
reporting rates and follow-
up 
to 
obtain 
missing 
logistics reports? 
  
  Percentage of report submission in Vertical programs was good. The regular follow up of the missing 
report has made it possible to achieve these results.  
  The Logistics report submission in public health facilities was not regular. It is next to the higher level, 
which was District office. No clear guidelines were provided for the submission of the reports.  
  In PPP the submission of report are quite regular.   
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
87
 
Indicators 
 Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
9 
What is the approximate 
percentage of information 
system reports received in 
time to be used for logistics 
decisions (ordering, 
distribution, etc.) at the 
following levels: 
  
  The submission of demand of medicines from the district to province is part of procurement process. 
Normally submission rate is 100 percent submission rate.   
  The reports from the health facility are submitted at the time of medicines requisition. The stock status 
report is part of the medicines requisition (demand) 
 
  
b. regional? (district to 
Province) 
1.5 
Y 
Y 
Y Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y  
Y 
N  
N 
  
c. district? (Health facility to 
district) 
1.5 
Y 
Y 
Y N  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
d. If below 100% at any 
level, explain why facilities 
don’t report or don’t report 
on time. 
  
1) Due to weak follow up.  
2) Monitoring of the stock out through the other parallel system that is DHIS and reports of MEAs 
 
10 
Are information system 
records reconciled against 
physical inventories at each 
level? 
  
  In Public health facilities of all provinces, the reconciliation of the physical stock is first through Incharge 
of the health facility (when required), or during the supervisory visits from the higher levels.  
  In Punjab, MEAs (Monitoring Evaluation Assistants) visit all BHUs and RHCs on monthly basis and monitor 
the stock balance of the tracer drugs and submit their report.  
  
a. If yes, how is this done? 
  
During the higher level visits, physical count of randomly selected medicines is carried out.  
MEAs physically check the stock status of tracer drugs of all BHUs and RHCs and submit the report on monthly 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
88
 
Indicators 
 Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
basis. 
  
b. How often? 
   
In public and private partnerships, the monitoring visits are at least once a month for each health facility.  
11 
Is the information system automated at the following levels: 
  
a. central? 
  
The manual LMIS has its limits, and medicines stocks information share the limited information through other 
information system like DHIS i.e. stock out in ‘yes’ and ‘no’ status and not the quantities available at the health 
facility.  DHIS provide the information of health facility level of all the provinces except mentioned above. 
Sindh: 
Computerized LMIS shares the stock levels at the district warehouse (not in the health facility). 
Punjab: 
In Punjab, the DHQ hospitals inventory management system, is upgraded, it is a computerized real time data 
management system which is automated at all levels. It gives the information of stock balance, consumed, stock 
outs and near expiry medicines.  
  
b. regional? 
  
  
c. district? 
  
  
d. service delivery level 
  
  
If no to questions 11 a–d, 
skip to 13. 
  
12 
Briefly describe the 
functions and processes 
that are automated. 
Forecasting of medicines is 
automated, stock-out 
reports,  
  
Monitoring of stock outs in all provinces,  
Monitoring of stock outs, stock balance, near expiry medicines at DHQs and teaching hospitals of Punjab 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
89
 
Indicators 
 Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
13 
Is external assistance 
provided to manage the 
information system? 
Describe. 
  
Punjab Information Technology Board, has provided IT assistance to developing the inventory management 
system software and its management.   
14 
Is the information system 
used to monitor and 
evaluate the program’s 
performance?  
  
Availability of Essential Medicines (stock out status) is one of the key performance indicators of the program.  
15 
How is logistics data 
recorded, managed, 
analyzed, and used at each 
level?  
  
Detail is mentioned in table # 7. 
16 
What indicators related to 
logistics and/or product 
availability does the 
information system track 
(e.g., stock out rate, 
percentage of reporting, 
rational prescribing 
practices, etc.)?  
  
The available Information management system is mostly at initial / basic stages of analysis. System is capable for 
tracking stock outs (at district warehouse level), stock outs of very essential medicines (tracer elements) at the 
health facility levels and near the expiry medicines in DHQs or civil hospitals of Punjab.  
  
a. Who tracks these 
indicators? How often? 
  
DHIS tracks indicators in all the provinces and the districts on monthly basis.   
Punjab: The Medicines Inventory Management software of Specialized Healthcare services for DHQs and 
Autonomous hospitals. The data was recorded and uploaded at real time. It has access to the district and regional 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
90
 
Indicators 
 Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
level.   
17 
What decisions are based on information system reports?  
forecasting 
0.167 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
procurement 
0.167 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
transport/delivery 
0.167 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
scheduling supervisory 
visit 
0.167 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
inventory management 
0.167 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
how much to resupply  
0.167 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
18 
Are logistics data used at each level of the system as appropriate for:  
a. continuous monitoring of stock balances? 
a. central? 
0.25 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
Y 
 N
A 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
y 
 NA 
 NA 
b. regional? 
(monitoring of tracer 
elements) 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
y 
c. district? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
Y  
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
d. service delivery level 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
b. calculating quantities for resupply? 
a. central? 
0.25 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
Y 
Y 
  
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
N  
 
y 
Y 
 NA 
 NA 
b. regional? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
Y 
Y 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
N 
N 
N 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
91
 
Indicators 
 Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
c. district? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
 NA 
N 
N 
N 
d. service delivery level 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
19 
What feedback mechanisms are in place to channel logistics information back to lower levels?  
Telephone 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
  
  
y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
  
Y 
Y 
Y 
reports (particular 
logistics report) 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
Meeting 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
Supervisory Visit 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
20 
Are issues data or 
dispensed-to-user data 
cross-checked against other 
data sources (e.g., service 
statistics, demographic 
surveys, etc.)? 
  
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
If no, skip to 22. 
21 
a. What type of data are 
they checked against? 
  
  
 PPPs checked stock consumption against morbidity data  
b. How often are they 
checked against each data 
type? 
  
 PPPs normally checked before the resupply  
c. Who is responsible for 
cross-checking? District 
medical officer than 
  
Initially the district managers and then at a later stage the  regional officers  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
92
 
Indicators 
 Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
Regional officers 
22 
a. Is logistics information 
provided to the appropriate 
decision makers for logistics 
planning? 
  
 Yes, the logistic information is provided to the appointed decision makers.   
  
b. What information is 
provided? 
  
The information was about the stock in hand, medicines consumed, the date of receiving, the quantity of last 
supply and the medicines demanded. 
c. Who provides the 
information? 
  
The Health facilities under the supervision of the health facility In-charge.  
d. Who receives the 
information? 
  
The Logistics staff under the supervision of DHO. 
e. How often? 
  
It was provided on monthly basis from health facility to the district (submission of reports is not regular).  And the 
Annual reports are for bidding process. 
f. How is the information 
used?  
  
This information was used for procurement, and resupply purpose. 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
93
1.5	 Section V: Forecasting
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
1 
  
  
  
Describe the forecasting 
process 
  
 In the government system, the Consumption based methodology of forecasting was observed. A complete 
compliance with the WHO recommendations were not observed in the forecasting process. The process of the 
forecasting is initiated at the regional level (provincial procurement cell) and the demand of the medicines were 
requested from the districts. The districts collect the demand of the health facilities in order to compile a report for 
submission. Based on the information provided in the report the district calculated the final quantities which were 
further sent for bidding process.  Normally, the process is initiated at the start of fiscal year (July to June), and it takes 
1 to 2 months for completion. 
a. Who initiates it? 
  
The Provincial department of health, calls for the forecasted quantities for opening of bids. 
b. When does it take 
place? 
  
June of every month 
c. How long does the 
process take? 
  
one month 
2 
Are forecasts developed using: 
  
a. dispensed-to-user 
data? (consumption 
data) 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
94
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
  
b. distribution/issues 
data? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
c. stock on hand at all 
levels? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
3 
  
  
Are forecasts developed using the following: 
a. demographic data or 
disease 
prevalence/morbidity?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
b. service statistics?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
 
 
Health statistics include both empirical data and estimations related to health sector, such as mortality, morbidity, 
risk factors, health service coverage, and health systems. The production and dissemination of health statistics is a 
core WHO activity. It is mandated to WHO by its Member States in its Constitution. (Although the system does not 
consider the morbidity based calculation but the risk factors were reviewed, while NP / IRMNCH & NP risk factors 
were observed.) 
4 
Are forecasts validated 
by comparing previous 
estimated consumption 
with 
actual 
consumption? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
95
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
5 
How close have most 
forecasts been to actual 
consumption? 
  
According to the requirement of the assessment the medicines (Amoxicillin, ORS and Zinc syrup) discrepancies 
observed are mentioned in the table below. 
6 
a. How many products 
had serious forecasts 
discrepancies in the past 
2 years (+/- 25%)? 
  
 Antibiotics and Analgesics  
c. Which products had 
the smallest forecast 
discrepancies? 
  
It was observed that the ORS has smallest discrepancy. 
7 
What other factors are 
considered in the 
preparation of forecasts  
  
The other factors include; consolidating decentralized forecasts or quantifications, seasonal and regional variations, 
standard treatment guidelines, national essential drug list, stock-out periods, etc. 
 
In Department of health of all provinces, medicines for forecasting were selected from the NEDL. It takes one year 
stock consumption, which covers the seasonal variations.  Normally, 5% of incremental is added in consumption of 
last year quantities.  More incremental are added for medicines which remained out of stocks.  
 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
96
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
8 
Do forecasts take into 
account programmatic 
plans  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
 
The medicines required for the expansion of the programmatic plans were considered in forecasting. This 
consideration is based on the availability of the budget.   
In PPP, such decision like expansion of the health facilities, at all times, facilitate the increase in supply of the 
medicines.  
9 
a. Is technical assistance 
provided to develop 
forecasts? 
1 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
  
b. If yes, by whom? 
  
PPP has not taken any external assistance  / TRF /the delivery for the contraceptive, vaccine and TB 
10 
What is the role of 
regional or lower levels 
in the forecasting 
process?  
  
Lower level (health facilities) provides the data that is compiled for further processing.   
11 
How does the private 
sector participate in the 
forecasting process?  
  
The private sector do not participate in forecasting activity.    
12 
Are forecasts updated at 
least annually? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
97
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
13 
Are forecasts prepared 
on a schedule that 
coincides with local 
budgeting and 
procurement cycles?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
14 
Are long-term (e.g., 3 or 
more years) forecasts 
prepared?  
1 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
15 
Does the DOH and/or 
other donors cost out 
forecasts and 
incorporate them into 
the budget planning?  
 
It was observed, that the cost of forecasting and quantification was not included in any budget.  
16 
Other comments on 
forecasting: 
  
The forecasting activity cannot be carried out properly, due to lack of competencies of the government staff. The 
staff, is unable to handle the stock outs or excess of stocks. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
98
1.6	 Section VI: Obtaining Supplies/Procurement
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
1 
Who is responsible for 
procurement planning 
and ordering and 
scheduling of 
shipments (e.g., 
logistics unit, 
procurement unit) at 
appropriate levels? 
  
 In the government system, the procurement cell at regional level and the procurement committee at the district level 
is more responsible for the planning and ordering of medicines. 
2 
Describe the 
coordination between 
staff or unit(s) 
responsible for logistics 
activities and 
procurement staff 
  
  The procurement cell and the logistics staff is either from same unit (districts) or at provincial level, works in close 
coordination   with the DHQ hospitals.  
3 
Are short-term 
procurement plans 
based on forecasted 
needs? (at least for 
one quarter) 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
4 
Do these procurement plans take into account the following logistics system elements:  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
99
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
  
a. current inventory 
levels (stock on hand)? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
b. consumption 
(dispensed to user or 
issues)? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
c. losses and 
adjustments? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
d. required order lead 
times of 
suppliers/donors?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
  
e. established stock 
levels, if relevant (i.e., 
maximum and 
minimum levels)?  
1 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
  
f. shipment and 
handling schedules?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
g. need for safety 
stock? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
5 
Are procurement plans 
responsive to other 
factors related to 
product supply and 
demand  
  
Yes, procurement plan are responsive to other factors like the demographic trends, program changes or expansion, IEC 
campaigns 
6 
Are procurements limited to: 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
100
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
  
a. pre-qualified 
suppliers? 
  
Yes, the medicines procured by the suppliers, are actually prequalified suppliers. PPP, normally, procures through 
prequalified suppliers and from Public health facilities, through prequalified manufacturers.  
  
b. products on the 
national essential 
drugs list?  
  
Yes, all the product in the procurement list is from NEDL. 
7 
In general, are the correct amounts of all products procured and obtained at the appropriate time, at the following levels: 
  
a. central? 
0.2
5 
 NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
  
  
  
y 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
  
  
 
y 
 Y 
NA 
NA 
  
b. regional? 
0.2
5 
Y 
N 
Y  
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Y 
  
  
  
  
c. district? 
0.2
5 
Y 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
y 
N 
N 
N 
NA 
  
  
  
  
d. service delivery 
point? 
0.2
5 
Y 
N 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
  
  
 
 
 
Due to the limited scope of assessment, at the district level. The HF assessment for the availabilities of medicines in 
Baluchistan, KP and FATA was not carried out. The Department of health, in FATA, has mentioned that they require 
medicines as they have stock outs in the health facilities.  
  
Specify the products, if 
any, that do not arrive in 
a timely manner, or in 
appropriate amounts, 
and why. 
  
1. Civil Hospital Sukkur: Amoxicillin suspension delay from manufacturer. 
2. THQ hospital Rohri: Zinc syrup delay from manufacturer. 
3. THQ Hospital Kandkot: Stock of Zinc syrup was available with National program but no medicines requisition was 
generated by the dispensary. Which in turn is manifesting a weak coordination or communication system.   
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
101
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
8 
a. What is the process 
for adjusting 
procurement plans in 
case of a budget 
shortfall? 
  
Normally, there is quarterly procurement and the orders were only placed upon the release of budgets.  Emergency 
procurement can be made, if there is any delay in the release of the budget.  
  
b. What 
are 
the 
procedures 
and 
time 
frames 
for 
ordering 
products from suppliers 
and donors? 
  
 In the Public health facilities, of all provinces, DDO submit the orders to the manufactures. Legally, Manufacturer has 
60 days to   supply the medicines. If any medicines provided by the donor, at the lead time of the supply, it all depends 
on the situation and organizational procedures.  
  
c. Do these take into 
account 
trade, 
regulatory, and currency 
restrictions? How? 
  
In the Public health facilities, all the procurement laws has to be followed. These rules are based upon Drug Acts 1976 
and DRAP rules.   
9 
What 
is 
done 
to 
monitor/manage 
the 
coordination 
of 
procurement 
plans 
among 
suppliers/donors? 
  
The pipeline status of medicines was to do regular monitoring.  In case of any delay from manufacturer, the penalties 
(fine) are issued from the department. It has been observed that even with the penalties there is delay form the 
manufacturer.  
10 
a. Is pipeline status 
regularly monitored so 
procurement decisions 
can be made to avoid 
stock outs?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
102
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
 
b. If yes, who does this 
and how?  
And  
C. How effective has this 
monitoring been? 
Explain. 
 
  PPP it is the Procurement and logistics team. Mostly, PPP has established prequalified suppliers, who are 
responsible to supply the product in time. If there is delayed from manufacturer, they buy it from distributor or 
from retails to ensure in time supply. 
  Sindh 
In Sindh, at the district level, the procurement cell is present for each district.  Whereas, in vertical program, 
the procurement cell is working at regional level.  At DHQ hospitals the pipeline status is monitored by 
Pharmacist.  
  Punjab 
The Procurement cell monitor these activities on weekly basis at secretary office, in which DHO, Manufacturer, 
DTL and central procurement cell participate. IRMNCH & NP Logistics and procurement cell. While in DHQs the 
status is monitored by Pharmacist. 
  Baluchistan, KP and FATA status is monitored by procurement Cell.  
 
11 
11.  Does the 
procurement unit or 
persons responsible for 
procurement in which a) 
write and issue tenders? 
B) evaluate the bids c) 
monitor supplier 
performance  
  
Yes, in the public sector and PPP the procurement cell is responsible for the issue tenders, evaluate bids, and monitor 
supplier performance.  
12 
Does the program have 
written procedures for 
ensuring that products 
meet defined standards 
  
The Programs have written procedure for the inspection of the quality of medicines supplied by the manufacturer. They 
perform physical verifications of the supplied stock. The procurement committee monitors the quantities supplied by 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
103
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
of quality? Please 
explain. 
the manufacturers as well as required laboratory confirmations of quality.  Samples of all batches supplied by the 
manufacturer were sent to the government drug testing labs. On the basis of satisfactory report of the lab, the 
department can issue and distribute the medicines.    
13 
What are the 
procedures for quality 
assurance, who is 
responsible for it, and 
how often are they 
done? 
  
According to the procurement rules, there is a requirement of quality assurance report from the government analytical 
lab, to ensure the quality of each batch of medicines procured. The Drug Inspectors are responsible to collect the 
samples of the medicines procured and submit for quality analysis. 
14 
Is there a procedure for 
recording and reporting 
complaints about 
product quality to 
suppliers? Please 
explain. 
  
In case of any quality issue, the manufacturer is responsible to replace the medicines and the government has legal 
rights to prosecute the supplier, if required.  
15 
What other actions are 
carried out to ensure 
product quality? 
  
Prequalified firms / manufacturers  
 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
104
1.7	 Section VII: Inventory Control 
  
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
1 
Specify what type of 
inventory control 
system is used (e.g., 
push, pull, etc.) and 
describe the system.  
  
 
The inventory control system, is followed by the public health facilities was actually a mixture of “push and pull” 
system. It was based on the availability of medicines.   
2 
What products are 
considered by the 
program to be in full 
supply? 
  
Considering the assessment requirement: Amoxicillin suspension, ORS and Zinc Syrup. Amoxicillin suspension and 
ORS were included in tracer drugs (very essential). It also includes   the full supply requirement, and Zinc syrup, needs 
to be included in the supplies.   
3 
Are there guidelines and established policies for maximum and minimum stock levels at which full supply products should be maintained (please note 
current maximum and minimum levels in comments section)? 
  
a. At the central level? 
0.5 
 NA 
N
A 
N
A 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
 N 
NA 
NA 
  
b. At the regional level? 
0.5 
NA 
N
A 
N
A 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
 N 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
  Y 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
  
c. At the district level? 
0.5 
N  
N  N  
N  
N  
N  
N  
N  
N  
Y  
N  
N  
N  
N  
N  
NA 
Na  
N  
N  
N  
  
d. At the service delivery 
point level?  
0.5 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
4 
a. Are the inventory 
controls guidelines for 
full supply products 
  
Sindh: The complete supply of products at any level, for maximum and minimum, were not properly established.  
 
Punjab: The Minimum levels of the tracer drugs is established. The minimum quantity level was also set as an 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
105
  
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
respected at all levels so 
stock levels generally 
fall between maximum 
and minimum? 
indicator of health facility assessment conducted by MEAs which is 45 days stock availability. This was done at the 
time of assessment of the health facility. Even if the stock was less than the mentioned quantity, it was not 
considered as stock out.  
Mainly, the stocks out status of these medicines were observed.  
5 
a. Are stock levels 
(maximum and 
minimum) for full supply 
products reviewed 
periodically?  
  
Yes, through MEAs on monthly basis and also the stock outs has been reported on monthly basis in DHIS.  
  
b. Do reviews take into 
account changes in 
transport and 
information availability?  
  
The information of stock out status was noted at the district level. On receiving the medicine’s demand, the stocks are 
issued from central warehouse. There was no automated system for it.  
6 
How are products that 
cannot be maintained in 
full supply allocated at 
different levels: 
 
The Medicines are not included in the full supply (tracer medicines) were issued on the basis of the availability at the 
higher level (district warehouse). If the health facility has DDO power, they can purchase the medicines as Local 
Purchase; if required, depending upon the availability of the budget.  
7 
Are there written 
provisions for the 
redistribution of over-
stocked supplies? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
8 
  
  
  
How are stock imbalances handled by supervisors/managers at the following levels: 
b. regional? 
  
It is more related to the district level. 
c. district? 
  
On the release of the budget, the required medicines were directly purchased from the manufacturer. 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
106
  
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
d. service delivery 
points? 
  
For the medicines required, the medicines requisition has been prepared showing the stock in hand, stock consumed 
and quantity required.  
9 
Does the program have 
a policy of storing and 
issuing stock according 
to first-to-expire, first-
out (FEFO) inventory 
control procedures at 
all levels? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
10 
In practice, does the 
program manage and 
issue stock according 
to FEFO inventory 
control procedures at 
all levels? Describe. 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
11 
  
  
  
Are damaged/expired 
products physically 
separated from 
inventory and removed 
from stock records at 
the following levels: 
  
In some places, the issue of expired drugs has been shared by the informants, while for the rest of the situations, the 
products do not expire due to procurement of long expiry medicines.   
b. regional? 
0.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
c. district? 
0.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
d. service delivery 
point? 
0.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
107
  
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
12 
Note the approximate 
quantities of products 
that expired within the 
past two years. 
  
The details has been mentioned below tables 11, 12 and 13  
13 
13. Does the program 
have a system for 
tracking product losses 
and other 
adjustments?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
14 
a. Are there significant 
losses and 
adjustments? 
  
The government system has the provision of damage and adjustment but number of reports of damaged and losses 
were not reported apparently to avoid the investigations. Due to less reporting the system has limitations to improve 
in such situations  
 15 
How does each level of 
the system calculate 
resupply quantities? 
  
The District Level: The district implements the consumption based method of forecasting. The order level depends on 
the demand of health facilities and availability of budget. 
 
Service delivery Level: The resupply quantities are calculated consumption based methodology (not consideration of 
all the WHO recommendations) The health facilities with PPP receive the medicines in 2 to 3 days while the 
government health facilities when required collect the medicines (depending upon the availability of medicines) from 
district. 
16 
Have stock outs 
occurred for any 
product in the last 12 
months at the 
following levels:  
 
Details of the stock out status have been mentioned in below table.  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
108
  
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
17 
a. Which products 
stock out most 
frequently? How long, 
and causes? 
 
The situation of the stock out has been shared in detail in the following table.  
18 
How did the stock outs 
affect program services 
and performance 
(specify which products 
and levels)? 
  
The medicines under consideration (Amoxicillin suspension, ORS, Zinc syrup) are the first line therapy of Diarrhea and 
Pneumonia. The Stock outs of these medicines were directly affecting the treatment protocols of the diarrhea and 
pneumonia of children under five years.  
19 
  
19. Are there 
established procedures 
for placing emergency 
orders? Yes No 
Comments: 
  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
In the health facilities with DDO powers or under the supervision of PPP, the emergency order can be handled 
effectively (in government health facilities through LP and PPP with immediate supplies). The LP has limited budget.  
The medicines issued to the health facility in response to the emergency order, are placed to the districts. It depends 
upon the availability of medicines at the central warehouse. HF level of KP Baluchistan and FATA manage the 
emergency procedures through medicines requisition. 
20 
a. How often are 
emergency orders 
placed by the following 
levels (include 
product): 
 
In PPHI and HANDs, the emergency orders of health facilities were handled by the district warehouse or through 
immediate procurements. The health facilities IHS have not received the stock because IHS has not received the 
allocated budget for the procurement of the medicines.  
Sindh: if medicines requisition is sent to the district office, stocks are issued on the same day depending on the 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
109
  
Indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed 
Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
availability.  NP: through LHS, the report to the District Coordinator, later he supplied the stock in monthly meeting.  
In case if unavailability of the medicines, the regional level office are requested for medicines supplies. This   process 
is completed within2 to 3 days. PPP provides the required medicines with in24 hours to HFs. 
Punjab:  In the case of emergency the order (medicines requisition) is directly placed to the District office. The stock 
is issued on the same day, depending on the availability of the stock. IRMNCH & NP Punjab handles emergency order 
of LHWs through courier service. Total time taken from placing an order to receiving of order may take 3 days. The 
efficiency of courier system should also be monitored. 
 
b. How successfully are 
emergency orders filled 
for the following 
levels? 
 
In tertiary care hospitals, if medicines are in central rate list and the order has been placed to the manufacture, they 
cannot procure the medicines form the LP. The delays from the manufacture creates issues. 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
110
1.8	 Section VIII: Warehousing and Storage
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
1 
Does the program have written 
guidelines for storage and handling 
of all products, at all levels of the 
system (e.g., manuals, posters, 
etc.)? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
y 
y 
y 
y 
Y 
y 
N 
N 
N 
2 
Are there written guidelines for 
disposal of sharps, bio-hazardous 
material, and other medical waste?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
3 
Does the program conduct at least one physical inventory of all products annually at storage facilities at the following levels: 
  
b. regional? 
0.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
  
y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
c. district? 
0.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
 N
A 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
d. service delivery point? 
0.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
  
  
  
  
  
LHW program Sindh: The District coordinator check the physical stock of LHS placed at health facilities 
during his/her visit. IRMNCH & NP Punjab: As the stocks directly moves from Provincial warehouse to 
LHW. Then there is no physical stock at district level. In HF, the custodian of stock is the store keeper and 
the In-charge of health facility, they randomly verify the physical stocks.  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
111
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
4 
Are there cold chain requirements 
in this supply chain?  
  
In Sindh, the vaccine has been used for the preventive approach of Diarrhea and pneumonia. In EPI 9, the 
vaccine preventable diseases were included (Polio, Hep-B, Meningitis, Measles, Diphtheria, TB, Tetanus, 
Pneumonia, pertussis while diarrhea due to Rota virus). The vaccine for Rota virus was also under 
discussion. The cold chain is required for the above mentioned vaccines. The storage conditions for the 
vaccine are much better than the routine medicines.  
Punjab: The cold chain rooms were available at the provincial and district levels. At health facilities ILRs 
were provided.   
5 
 Are cold chain storage resources 
(e.g., refrigerator, 
paraffin/kerosene, and 
temperature chart) available at all 
levels of the system, where 
appropriate? 
  
 The cold chain storage resources for vaccines were available at all levels.  This includes cold chain rooms, 
special vehicles for transportation, ILRs, ice packs and vaccine carrier boxes.   
6 
How is the cold chain monitored to 
ensure that products are 
consistently maintained at 
appropriate temperatures? (Check 
all that apply.) 
  
All the refrigerator provided were not equipped with thermometers, temperature log sheets etc. 
guidelines are available for the vaccines storage only.  
7 
Is the existing storage capacity adequate to handle the current quantities of products at the following levels: 
  
a. regional? 
0.33 
Y  
Y  
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
b. district? 
0.33 
Y  
Y  
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
112
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
  
c. service delivery point? 
0.33 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
8 
 Can the existing storage capacity 
handle all the quantities needed to 
ensure that no stock outs occur at 
the different levels? 
 
 The central warehouses: The existing storage capacity is insufficient to handle the required medicines. 
The purpose build warehouses (warehouse that meet all the standards / requirements) were not available 
in the districts assessed. The stocks were also placed in extra room, corridors, garage etc.  Whereas, 
warehouses of the PPP have sufficient space, due to the increase in the frequency of supplies. It has 
increased to manage the stocks in the available space.  
Health facilities have insufficient spaces especially for DHQs and THQs. The storage space provided to the 
RHCs and BHUs is also insufficient.  
9 
How does the program cope with 
inadequate storage space at the 
different levels: 
  
10 
Does the program have plans for 
meeting storage requirements for 
at least the next five years? 
  
Yes, the government of Sindh is planning to construct ae purpose build warehouse in each district.  
11 
Describe the program’s plans for 
accommodating 
growth 
(e.g., 
infrastructure, distribution, etc.). 
  
 Sindh: The health department of Sindh, has planned to construct a warehouse at each division that will 
facilitate the storage of medicines.  
Punjab:  The infrastructure for the temperature regulation (AC) has been provided at the district 
medicines storage warehouses, while the health facility level is still without AC.  
12 
12.  Specify storage conditions that 
need improvement, if any (e.g., 
cleanliness, 
organization, 
temperature, building structure, 
  
Storage temperature, infrastructure including racks and pallets 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
113
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
etc.). 
13 
a. 
Is 
there 
a 
procedure 
for 
recording 
complaints 
about 
product quality at all levels? 
b. If yes, how are they handled? 
  
Product quality complains can be recorded at any level. If supplied medicines were not up to the 
standards (labeling) they are returned to the supplier and get the replacement. If the supplied medicines 
have quality issue, like, spurious drugs government can take legal actions.  
14 
14.  Are visual / lab quality assurance inspections of products conducted at the storage facility at the following levels: 
  
Regional? 
0.33 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
y 
Y 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
District? 
0.33 
Y  
Y  
Y  
N 
N 
N 
Y 
0 
Y  
N 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
N 
  
  
  
  
Service delivery point? 
0.33 
Y  
Y  
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y  
na 
N 
N 
N 
N 
NA 
  
  
  
15 
Are there written procedures or 
guidelines for destroying damaged 
and expired products?  
1 
Y  
Y  
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y  
 
 
N 
N 
N 
N 
1 
N 
 N 
 Y  
 N 
16 
Describe the written 
procedures/guidelines for 
destroying damaged and expired 
products. 
  
The expiry of the product is rarely reported while the used vials, cartons syringes were burnt and buried.  
The incinerators are not available in all health facilities. At the provincial level, according to SOPs the 
expired medicine were destroyed, using incinerators. 
17 
In practice, are damaged and 
expired products destroyed 
according to the program’s disposal 
guidelines at the following levels: 
 
  
b. regional? 
0.33 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
 
Y 
Y  
Y  
Y  
  
c. district? 
0.33 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
114
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
d. service delivery point? 
0.33 
Y  
Y  
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
Hospital 
waste 
management 
practices in the Sindh  
 
 
The Sindh Health Department, constituted a seven-member provincial committee to implement the Sindh 
Hospital Waste Management Rules 2014 and to ensure the provision of safe drinking water at public and 
private hospitals in the province. According to a notification by the health department, the committee was 
formed to formulate a strategy and to implement hospital waste management plans of all public and 
private hospital in the province in the light of the rules. The panel will supervise the district sub 
committees for the implementation of the hospital waste management rules. 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
115
1.9	 Section IX : Transportation / Distribution
  
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
 1 
How are products delivered 
between each level of the 
system (include frequency and 
means of transportation)? 
Specify between which levels. 
How are routes determined? 
  
In the government designated vehicle, used for the medicines distribution were not available.   But when a 
private vehicle is arranged for the distribution of medicines and the cost is paid by the district health office.  
 2 
Do written procedures specify 
what type of distribution 
system should be used to 
distribute products between 
each level? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
 
The procedures for the transportation of vaccines has been clearly described and well understood by the 
service providers.  
 3 
3. Is there a documented 
distribution schedule for all 
levels?  
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
 
In the districts of Sindh and Punjab, a proper schedules is prepared for the distribution of medicines. These 
schedules were helpful in managing the workload of the warehouse. 
IRMNCH & NP program, in Punjab, is now distributing medicines through courier service.  
In DHQ, the distribution of medicines is by the sub-pharmacies and that is according to the set schedules. 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
116
  
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
 4 
Which 
essential 
health 
products 
are 
distributed 
together (e.g., ORS and Zinc 
suspension 
with 
essential 
drugs, 
laboratory 
supplies, 
etc.)? Specify by level. 
  
The concept of combo or co-packing was not well established.  The distribution of medicines were depended 
on the stocks availability.  
 5 
Are a sufficient number of functioning vehicles available, with petrol and drivers, at appropriate levels, to meet the desired product distribution 
schedule? 
  
b. regional? 
1.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Na 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
na 
N 
N 
N 
  
c. district? 
1.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
d. service delivery point? 
1.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
 6 
Are vehicles regularly available 
for supervision? 
  
In PPP, the vehicles are provided with POL for the supervision at all levels.  
In the government limited resources has been observed.  
 7 
  
  
  
In general, are orders delivered as scheduled at the following levels: 
b. regional?  
1.33 
  
  
  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
 na 
  
  
  
  
 
 na 
  
  
  
c. district? 
1.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
 na 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
 na 
  
  
  
d. service delivery point? 
1.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
 na 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
1 
 na 
Y 
Y 
Y 
 8 
a. Is transportation outsourced 
at any level of the system?  
b. If yes, how effective has it 
been? 
 
PPP, organizational vehicle were available.  
The Districts do not have budget for the vehicles and medicines distribution. The distribution of medicines is 
done through rented vehicle or through any vehicle which is available in health department.  No permanent 
contractors were arranged.  The ongoing system was not efficient for urgent supplies, distribution of 
medicines during emergencies, or during strikes of transporters etc.  
IRMNCH & NP has made contract with a courier company for the distribution of medicines. The supply of 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
117
  
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
medicines through courier company is a new intervention in SCM.  The medicines in Health department as 
discussed with LHS and LHWs will be very effective. 
 9 
Does the program’s budget 
have a line item for vehicles, 
fuel, maintenance, periderm 
salaries for drivers etc.: 
  
The Programs have budget for logistics and transportation of medicines.   
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
118
1.10	Section X: Organizational support for Logistics system
  
indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
 1 
  
  
  
  
How often do personnel at the following levels communicate? 
b. The Regional-level logistics staff with staff from the next level below (e.g. district) (If never=0 = N, otherwise 0.5=Y) 
Never / Weekly / 
Monthly / 
Quarterly / 
Annually 
0.5 
Y  
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
 
In all the provinces and districts, it was observed that there were no routine meetings of the logistics staff, and the method 
of communication is through official letters or reports.  
In Punjab, Specialized healthcare hospitals were linked through online computerized software, which was updating the 
stock level at real time. Rest of the public health facilities submits its report on monthly basis.  
Annually, every district submit its forecasted medicines quantities 
c. District-level logistics staff with the service delivery point 
Never / Weekly / 
Monthly / 
Quarterly / 
Annually 
0.5 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
NA 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
NA 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
If never to question 1 a–c, skip to question 3. 
2 
Describe what is 
done in this 
 
During the meetings, the instructions in form of official letters from higher level to the lower level logistics staff, and their 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
119
  
indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
communication? 
responsibilities was normally shared.  
Updates of budget release, medicines procurement plan, any new instruction, change in law or reporting mechanisms were 
shared in the routine meeting.  
 3 
Is 
there 
a 
supervision system 
that 
covers 
logistics activities?  
  
Monitoring of tracer elements at BHUs and RHC through MEAs facilitate the physical count of medicines and the  online 
software of DHQ facilitate the inventory management in Punjab, the reports of stock out status shared in DHIS reports in all 
the provinces will facilitate the availability of the essential medicines.  
4 
How 
often 
supervision 
is 
conducted at the 
service 
delivery 
points? 
 
In all public health facilities, apart from the external monitoring or reporting by MEAs, the health facility in-charge is 
responsible for first level of supervision of all the logistics activities. Any report / document submitted by Pharmacist at DHQ 
or to the store keeper from BHU or RHC is verified by the health facility incharge. The Vertical program is monitored by the 
District coordinators.  
5 
  
  
  
 Is there a process in place for improving any gaps in the knowledge and skills of logistics personnel at the following levels? If yes, please describe 
process. 
b. regional? 
0.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
c. district? 
0.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
d. service delivery 
point? 
0.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
0 
N 
 6 
 Are there written 
procedures 
and 
guidelines 
(e.g., 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
120
  
indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
manuals, job aids, 
standards) to help 
staff carry out their 
logistics 
responsibilities? 
 7 
Are the procedures 
and 
guidelines 
distributed to staff 
at 
the 
following 
levels: 
 
The guidelines were not distributed at the health facility;  
8 
  
  
  
Do staff who manage commodities have a written job description that includes logistics responsibilities at the following levels: 
b. regional? 
0.33 
Y  
Y  
Y  
N  
N  
N  
N  
N  
N  
y 
N  
N  
N  
N  
N  
y 
N  
N  
N  
N  
c. district? 
0.33 
Y  
Y  
Y  
N  
N  
N  
N  
N  
N  
y 
N  
N  
N  
N  
N  
y 
N  
N  
N  
N  
d. service delivery 
point? 
0.33 
Y  
Y  
Y  
N  
N  
N  
N  
N  
N  
Y  
N  
N  
N  
N  
N  
y 
N  
N  
N  
N  
 9 
Do logistics staff has the tools and resources they need to do their jobs, at the following levels (e.g., job aids, forms, carbon paper, calculators, shelving, 
vehicles, funds for transport, etc.)? If not, which tools or resources are missing at the following levels:  
  
a. central? 
  
Not applicable  
  
b. regional? 
  
Lack of storage conditions as mentioned in Baluchistan MSD,  
  
c. district? 
  
The warehouses at district level are insufficient in size, lack of racks and pallets. The Air Conditioning facility is available in 
Punjab while other provinces are deprived from such facilities. 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
121
  
indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
  
d. service delivery 
point? 
  
  At the health facility levels, the size of stores are insufficient. The Pallets and racks are not provided in sufficient quantities. 
And also the  bags for the dispensing of medicines.  
  
a. 
Is 
external 
assistance (from other 
NGOs, 
donors, 
or 
partners) 
used 
to 
complete 
management 
and 
supervision activities? 
  
 The Monitoring and Evaluation Assistance (MEA) has facilitated the department of health in getting the stock status of very 
essential medicines. UNICEF and WHO facilitate in monitoring of vaccination (utilization of vaccines) stock status etc.   
 10 
Are 
supervisory 
responsibilities 
described in written 
job descriptions? 
1 
Y  
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
In the job description the major responsibilities of the supervision are given. But the templates or check list gives more 
description of supervision. 
 11 
Are 
guidelines 
available for how 
the supervisor is to 
conduct 
the 
supervisory visit  
1 
No guidelines were available for the supervisor that describes him how to conduct the supervisor visits. How to create two 
way communications.  
 12 
Are 
tools 
available 
that describe what to 
cover 
when 
conducting 
a 
supervisory 
visit 
specifically 
for 
logistics 
monitoring 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
 
Supervisory tools for the monitoring of vaccine storage 
MEAs tool of monitoring of health facility 
DHIS indicators give the information of stock out status.  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
122
  
indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
(e.g., 
guidelines, 
a 
checklist)? 
 
  
If no to 13–15, skip to question 18. 
 13 
Do the supervisors 
use these guidelines 
and tools? 
  
  
 Yes, supervisors use the tool.  
 14 
  
  
  
  
Are supervisory visits conducted for staff at the following levels: 
b. regional? 
0.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
na 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
na 
Y 
Y 
Y 
c. district? 
0.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
na 
na 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
na 
Y 
Y 
Y 
d. service delivery 
point? 
0.33 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
If no to 17 a–d, skip to question 21. 
 15 
What types of activities take place during the visits: 
 
a. review 
procedures for 
forecasting needs?  
  
It is the common topic of discussion, either in visits or meetings.  
 
  
  
b. review 
procedures for 
ordering products? 
  
Normally, the time to submit the order was reported, in the discussion.  
  
c. observe product 
storage? 
  
The visitors from the department, can completely understand the limitations of the storage but staking / organizing the 
products is mostly discussed by the visitors or supervisors.  
  
d. conduct physical 
  
During the visits, the physical count of randomly selected product was commonly reported.  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
123
  
indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
inventory? 
  
e. review logistics 
records and 
reports? 
  
The review of the stock registers, daily expense register, bin cards, medicines requisition records, were always reviewed.  
  
f. discuss 
budgeting for 
logistics activities?  
  
It was reported that the discussion on budgets was more among the provincial and district level staff.    
  
g. review changes 
made since last 
supervisory visit? 
  
Anything which was under the control of health facility staff and supervisor, if it is considered as a negligence or the area for  
improvement; then these areas were shared and discussed in next visit.  The supervisory visits at the health facilities, under 
the supervision of PPP were more frequent, so the impact of any observation made during the previous visit, helps to bring 
more chances towards improvement of the processes.   
  
h. on-the-job 
training to improve 
job performance? 
  
Anything that can be explained or demonstrated within the limited time was discussed in the visits.  
  
i. discuss what is 
working and what 
is not working?  
  
During the supervisory visits of the public health facilities, anything not working well was reported.    However, if the issue 
was from the departmental side, empathic behavior was adopted. The issues, like, storage conditions etc. were discussed 
with higher officials during high level meeting.   
  
j. discuss what help 
is needed (staff, 
equipment, forms, 
etc.)? 
  
Any help, like, requirement of the stock register, daily expense register, bin cards were immediately resolved.  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
124
  
indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
 16 
Is there a 
documented 
schedule for 
supervision?  
1 
In PPP, there were schedules, while in public sector of Sindh and Punjab, there were no schedules for health facilities. 
  
If no, skip to question 21. 
 17 
a. Are supervisory 
visits 
conducted 
according to the 
established 
schedule? If not, 
why not?  
b. How often do 
they take place? 
  
 In PPP, the supervisory visits were conducted according to their schedules.  The other scheduled visits were also reported, if 
required.   
18 
Are 
there 
any 
constraints 
to 
conducting 
supervisory visits? 
  
 In Sindh and Punjab, the major constrain of conduction the supervisory visits is the limitations of HR, availability of vehicle 
and POL. 
 19 
If a staff member’s 
performance 
in 
logistics 
is 
not 
satisfactory, is the 
person provided with 
trainings? 
 
The public sector, it was observed that the components of capacity building was not scientifically focused. It mostly, 
depends on the trainings organized by the NGOs. No periodic staff development program by the health departments was 
organized.  
 20 
Has training been given to current staff at all appropriate levels, in the following areas:  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
125
  
indicators 
LSAT Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
  
a. completion and 
submission of LMIS 
reports? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
  
b. proper storage 
of health 
products? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
c. maintaining 
proper stock 
levels? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
d. determining 
order quantities? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
e. determining 
issue quantities? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
f. estimating 
annual needs? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
g. reviewing 
reports and 
records? 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
  
h. hands on 
training during 
supervisory visits 
0.25 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
Y 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
126
1.11	Section XI: Product use 
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
1 
Do written standard treatment 
guidelines exist for conditions 
that use commodities in the 
supply chain being assessed? 
1 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
The required standard treatment guidelines by the vertical program (NP in Sindh and IRMNCH & NP in 
Punjab) were with limited scope to perform their duties.  
  
If no, skip to question 4. 
  
  
2 
List the commodities being 
assessed in this supply chain 
that are required to comply 
with the standard treatment 
guidelines. 
  
Amoxicillin suspension, ORS (Low osmolality), Zinc Syrup or Zinc dispersible tablets 
3 
Are 
standard 
treatment 
guidelines distributed to all the 
service delivery points? 
1 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
The vertical program training manuals, is  distributed to all the services providers. At the development of the 
new edition of the training manual  the required trainings is  planned and hardcopies are distributed to all 
LHSs and LHWs. 
4 
Are there written procedures 1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
na 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
na 
N 
N 
N 
N 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
127
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
for monitoring and supervising 
prescribing 
practices 
(e.g., 
monitoring 
number 
of 
products/drugs 
prescribed/dispensed 
per 
prescription)? 
  
 
 
WHO recommendations for the monitoring of prescribed practices are to avoid poly pharmacy and to 
promote the rational utilization of the medicines. The information provided by the PPP, was also to monitor 
the prescribed practices of the physicians.  
Some surveys are conducted by WHO / NGOs on to gather the basic knowledge of the prescribing behaviors 
of physicians. It is observed that in public health facilities, under the supervision of health department, are 
currently not monitoring according to whose recommendations. The scope of work of LHW is limited and 
with medicines (ORS & Zinc supplementation for diarrhea and Amoxicillin suspension for mild pneumonia. It 
could be used as an initial dose then the patient   could referred to the hospital. 
  
If no, skip to question 6. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
5 
Are the written procedures 
distributed to service providers 
at all levels?  
1 
N  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y  
N 
N 
N 
N 
Guidelines for prescribing practices were not available at health facilities visited.  
6 
Do written universal safety 
precaution 
guidelines 
exist 
(e.g., 
disposing 
of 
used 
1 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
 Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
128
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
needles, washing hands before 
and 
after 
contact 
with 
patient)? 
  
If no, skip to question 8. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
7 
7. Are precaution guidelines 
distributed to service providers 
at all levels?  
1 
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
 Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Y  
Guidelines regarding syringe disposals, washing hands were available in form of the posters at all health 
facilities.  
8 
a. 
What 
mechanisms 
and 
resources are in place to 
ensure the implementation of 
standard treatment guidelines 
and 
universal 
safety 
precautions? 
  
The posters of universal safety guidelines were displayed in the health facilities. The universal safety 
guidelines were followed. Syringes and Safety boxes were available. Method of disposal of safety boxes was 
clear to the store keepers.  
 The efforts to promote the STG were not seen, and the major barrier observed was that the young physician 
followed the specialist / consultant doctors. This practice may be correct for the patient they prescribed 
occasionally, but as a routine, in primary healthcare, it may not be required.  
9 
Are 
commodities 
provided 
only to facilities that have staff 
trained and are equipped to 
use them? 
1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
10 
Are 
prescribing 
practices 1 
Y 
Y 
Y 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
N 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
129
 
Indicators 
Marks 
Sindh 
Punjab 
Baluchistan 
KP 
FATA 
HANDS 
I H S 
PPHI 
Kashmore 
Sukkur 
TM Khan 
Tharparkar 
KHI Malir 
Shaheed Benazirabad 
National Program 
DHQ 
Muzaffarghar 
Bahawalnagar 
pakpattan 
Rajanpur 
IRMNCH & NP 
DHQs 
monitored and compared to 
standard 
treatment 
guidelines? How often? By 
whom?  
 
 
 
 
The efforts of the PPP was for their internal records. However, the survey conducted by WHO for prescribing 
practices, should be repeated after recommended time intervals. 
11 
Are there behavior change 
communication 
campaigns 
underway for use of ORS and 
Zinc Suspension, Amoxicillin 
DT, Zinc DT? 
  
Yes, by updating the manuals. And Nutrition initiative has promoted the use of combo pack (ORS + Zinc 
syrup) in District Gujrat Punjab, and according to NI, a positive response has been observed.  
 
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
130
PROCEDURE FOR REGISTRATION OF DRUGS
1.	
Drugs Act, 1976 regulates the import, export, manufacture, storage, distribution and sale of the drugs. Drugs 
are registered under section 7 of the Drugs Act, 1976. Registration Board is authority for registration of drugs.
2.	
The Registration Board has been setup under section 7 of the Drugs Act, 1976. The Registration Board is 
comprised of 17 highly technical, professional and experienced members from Medical, Pharmaceutical, 
Biologicals, Pharmacy, Veterinary, Law (from Law & Justice Division), Drug testing, relevant Directors of 
DRAP and representative of Intellectual Proprietary Organization. Representatives of stake holder’s i.e. 
Pakistan Pharmaceuticals Manufacturer Association, Pharma Bureau and Pakistan Veterinary Manufacturer 
Association are included in the Drugs Registration Board as observers. Composition of Registration Board is 
laid down under rule 24 of the Drugs (Licensing, Registering and Advertising) Rules, 1976 framed under the 
Drugs Act, 1976.
3.	
Rule 26 & 29 of Drugs (Licensing, Registering and Advertising) Rules, 1976 prescribe procedure for grant of 
registration as follows:-
(i) 	 An application for registration of a drug shall be made in Form 5 (for local manufacture), 5-A (for 
imported drugs), 5-D (for new molecule) or Form-E (for Patent Drugs) accompanied by fee in duplicate to the 
Registration Board addressed to its Secretary, and separate application shall be made for each drug.
(ii)	  The applicant shall furnish such further information and material as may be required by the Registration 
Board for proper evaluation of the drug.
(iii) 	 The Registration Board may, if it considers necessary, cause the application for registration and the 
information and material supplied to it to be evaluated by a Committee on Drugs Evaluation consisting of 
experts related to the aspect of the drug (Expert Committee on Biological Drugs for biological drugs and 
Veterinary Expert Committee for veterinary drugs constituted under Section 10 of the Drugs Act, 1976) to be 
evaluated and obtain its report.
(iv) 	 The Registration Board may, before issuing a registration, cause the premises in which the manufacture 
is proposed to be conducted to be inspected by itself or by its sub-committee or by a panel of Inspectors or 
experts appointed by it for the purpose, which may examine all portions of the premises and the plant and 
appliances, inspect the process of manufacture intended to be employed and the means to be employed for 
standardizing, if necessary, and testing the substances to be manufactured and enquire into the professional 
qualifications of the technical staff employed. Where inspection is carried out by a Sub-Committee or panel 
of experts or Inspectors appointed, it shall forward to the Registration Board a detailed report of the result of 
the inspection.
(v)	  The Registration Board shall, before registering a new drug for which the research work has been 
conducted in other countries and its efficacy, safety and quality has been established therein, require the 
investigation on such pharmaceutical, pharmacological and other aspects, to be conducted and clinical trials 
to be made as are necessary to establish its quality and, where applicable, the biological, availability, and its 
safety and efficacy to be established under the local conditions: Provided that under special circumstances to 
be recorded in writing, the Registration Board may register a drug and require such investigations and clinical 
trials to be conducted after its registration.
(vi) 	 A new drug, where new method of manufacture is contemplated or a change is proposed in source, 
standard or specification of the active ingredient or the finished product may not require full investigations 
annex 3
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
131
and clinical trials except in so far as they are necessary for the purpose of establishing bio-equivalence, 
absorption, acceptability or other such features.
(vii) 	For imported drugs, GMP inspection of foreign manufacturer is also carried out prior to grant of 
registration. Experts in the relevant field inspect the foreign manufacturer to ensure that manufacturer fulfills 
the current Good Manufacturing Practices. However, pharmaceutical / biological products approved by United 
States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA), World Health Organization (WHO), European Medicine Agency 
(EMA) or regulatory bodies of Japan, Australia, Health Canada, Switzerland any of the regulatory bodies of 
erstwhile Western Europe or three stringent regulatory bodies of erstwhile Eastern Europe shall be exempted 
from the inspection of the manufacturing unit abroad.
(viii) 	If the Registration Board, after such further enquiry, if any, as it may consider necessary, is satisfied of its 
safety, efficacy, quality and economical value or where the public interest so requires, it may register the drug 
and issue a certificate of registration in Form 6, subject to such specific conditions as it may specify.
(ix)	  Where it is necessary in the public interest so to do, the Registration Board may register a drug on its 
own motion without having received any application for registration.
(x) 	 If the Registration Board is not satisfied as to the safety, efficacy, quality or economic value of a drug, or 
where the public interest so requires it may reject the application for registration and inform the applicant of 
the reasons for such rejection in writing.
(xi) 	 The Drugs Registration Fee vide S.R.O 1117(I)/2012 is as follows:
Fee (Rs.)
Renewal Fee (Rs.)
(a)
New drug or molecule / drug not manufactured locally
50,000/-
20,000/-
(b)
Any other drug for import
100,000/-
20,000/-
(c)
Drug for local manufacture
20,000/-
10,000/-
(d)
Drug for import
---
40,000/-
(e)
Drug for local manufacture
---
20,000/-
(f)
Variance to registration application i.e. changes in inactive 
raw materials, method of manufacture, testing methods 
or quality specifications, product specification, packing 
materials including changes of labeling specification etc.
5,000/-
---
09
references
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
133
1.	
Reproductive, maternal, newborn, and child health in Pakistan: challenges and opportunities: Health 		
Transitions in Pakistan, The Lancet Volume 381, No. 9884, p2207-2218, 22 June 2013
2.	
National Institute of Population Studies (NIPS) Pakistan and ICF International Inc., Pakistan Demographic 
Health Survey 2012-13,
3.	
Interventions to address deaths from childhood pneumonia and diarrhea equitably: what works and at what 
cost? The Lancet, Volume 381, No. 9875, p. 1417-1429, 20 April 2013.
4.	
Battersby, A., & World Health Organization. (1985). How to assess health services logistics with particular 
reference to peripheral health facilities.
5.	
World Health Organization. (2008). Medicine prices, availability, affordability and price components: a synthesis 
report of medicine price surveys undertaken in selected countries of the WHO Eastern Mediterranean Region.
6.	
World Health Organization. (2004). WHO Medicines strategy 2004-2007: countries at the core.
7.	
National Essential Medicines List (NEML) of Pakistan, 2016
8.	
Zaidi, S., Bigdeli, M., Aleem, N., & Rashidian, A. (2013). Access to essential medicines in Pakistan: policy and 
health systems research concerns. PloS one, 8(5), e63515.
9.	
Nishtar, S. (2006). Pharmaceuticals--strategic considerations in health reforms in Pakistan. JPMA. The Journal 
of the Pakistan Medical Association, 56(12 Suppl 4), S100-11.
10.	 Rabbani, F., Perveen, S., Aftab, W., Zahidie, A., Sangrasi, K., & Qazi, S. A. (2016). Health workers’ perspectives, 
knowledge and skills regarding community case management of childhood diarrhoea and pneumonia: a 
qualitative inquiry for an implementation research project “Nigraan” in District Badin, Sindh, Pakistan. BMC 
health services research, 16(1), 462.
11.	 Habib, M. A., Soofi, S., Sadiq, K., Samejo, T., Hussain, M., Mirani, M., ... & Bhutta, Z. A. (2013). A study to 
evaluate the acceptability, feasibility and impact of packaged interventions (“Diarrhea Pack”) for prevention 
and treatment of childhood diarrhea in rural Pakistan. BMC Public Health, 13(1), 922.
12.	 N. Akber Pradhan, N. Rizvi, N. Sami, and X. Gul, “Insight into implementation of facility-based integrated 
management of childhood  illness strategy in a rural district of Sindh, Pakistan.,” Glob. Health Action, vol. 6, 
no. 1, p. 20086, Jan. 2013
13.	 Bagonza, J., Rutebemberwa, E., Eckmanns, T., & Ekirapa-Kiracho, E. (2015). What influences availability of 
medicines for the community management of childhood illnesses in central Uganda? Implications for scaling 
up the integrated community case management programme. BMC public health, 15(1), 1180.
14.	 Brown, A. N., Ward-Panckhurst, L., & Cooper, G. (2013). Factors affecting learning and teaching for medicines 
supply management training in Pacific Island Countries—a realist review. Rural Remote Health, 13, 2327.
15.	 Barrington, J., Wereko-Brobby, O., Ward, P., Mwafongo, W., & Kungulwe, S. (2010). SMS for Life: a pilot project 
references
09
SUPPLY / LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM ASSESSMENT
134
to improve anti-malarial drug supply management in rural Tanzania using standard technology. Malaria 
journal, 9(1), 298.
16.	 Salenga, R., Robles, Y., Loquias, M., Capule, F., & Guerrero, A. M. (2015). Medicines management in the 
Philippine public sector during the response to Haiyan. Western Pacific surveillance and response journal: 
WPSAR, 6(Suppl 1), 82.
17.	 Kalu, N., Lufesi, N., Havens, D., & Mortimer, K. (2016). Implementation of World Health Organization Integrated 
Management of Childhood Illnesses (IMCI) guidelines for the assessment of pneumonia in the under 5s in 
rural Malawi. PloS one, 11(5), e0155830.
18.	 Bigdeli, M., Jacobs, B., Tomson, G., Laing, R., Ghaffar, A., Dujardin, B., & Van Damme, W. (2012). Access to 
medicines from a health system perspective. Health policy and planning, czs108.
19.	 Mikkelsen-Lopez, I., Cowley, P., Kasale, H., Mbuya, C., Reid, G., & de Savigny, D. (2014). Essential medicines 
in Tanzania: does the new delivery system improve supply and accountability?. Health systems, 3(1), 74-81.
20.	 Tan, A. C. W., Emmerton, L. M., Hattingh, L., & La Caze, A. (2015). Exploring example models of cross-sector, 
sessional employment of pharmacists to improve medication management and pharmacy support in rural 
hospitals. Rural and remote health, 15(4).
21.	 Kruk, M. E., Rockers, P. C., Tornorlah Varpilah, S., & Macauley, R. (2011). Population preferences for health 
care in liberia: insights for rebuilding a health system. Health services research, 46(6pt2), 2057-2078.
22.	 Saleem, F., Hassali, M. A., Iqbal, Q., Baloch, M., & Shanker, P. R. (2016). Uncontrollable medicine prices in 
Pakistan. The Lancet, 388(10060), 2602.
23.	 Villacorta‐Linaza, R. (2009). Bridging the gap: the role of pharmacists in managing the drug supply cycle 
within non‐governmental organizations. The International journal of health planning and management, 
24(S1), S73-S86.
